Title: Adrian Owen & Faraz Shafaghi, Creyos
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cz0DIwxmpik
Language: en
Duration: 00:48:08
Upload Date: April 23, 2026

Transcription:

This is Matthew Halt with the healthcare   blog spotlight here and we are going to   look at uh a company called Kos. I have   with me Farad Shafagi Far your name too   much too badly uh who is the chief   product officer and Adrien Owen is much   easier name to spell you noticed   Adrian's another Brit like me another   person who's been kicked out of the uh   kicked out of the country for various   crimes I'm sure um uh Adrian is the   chief science officer and also I will   get this wrong professor of neuroscience   and what else Adrian at University of   Western Ontario   >> that's right neuroscience and imaging   neuroscience and imaging which are I'm   sure it sounds like two different things   but I I'll believe you for now. So,   Kratos is in the business of uh   neurological testing. Um and obviously   there is a large ongoing and increasing   problem with uh you know various types   of neurological problems in the US   particularly dementia obviously is the

big one and in the western world as a   whole. Um so for us let me start with   you what what uh in the basics terms   what do you guys do and what is the   problem you're attacking? Yeah, for   sure. So, Crayos is an objective   cognitive assessment platform. Um,   really the main issues that we're   tackling today are in allowing   individuals to get a much more sensitive   measurement of brain function and brain   health much earlier on than they   typically would.

I mean, as as you know,   as you've just mentioned, this is   becoming a massive massive problem. Um,   there's an aging population, a rising   cost burden. there are bottlenecks in   terms of specialty uh groups who can   actually deal with these types of   issues. So the main problem that we're   trying to tackle right now lies in   enabling providers to get really good   highquality objective data at point of   care that allows them to make the best   decisions on behalf of their patients.

>> And Adrian, how is this I mean obviously   you know people have known about   Alzheimer's and neurological problems   and cognitive issues for a long time.   Um, you know, we're now seeing it play   out in real time in the presidency of   this fair country, but actually not your   country, but the one, although you guys   are from Canada, no, no doubt we'll soon   be part of this country given the way   that current incumbent's behaving.

Um,   don't tell them you have any oil by   suggestion.   But meanwhile, um, seriously, uh, how,   you know, how is this problem playing   out kind of from the academic   environment into general practice? how   it are we discovering new stuff that we   need to test or we figuring out how to   democratize testing that we've had in   the academic environment into general   practice.

>> That's a great question. I think it's   more the latter. I think you know for   for many years these things have been   very much in the academic domain. So   actually I started working on what is   now CROS in 1988 when I was a graduate   student back in the UK. Um, so it's been   30 years in the making, but for most of   that period, it's been very much, you   know, an an academic thing because and   and this will explain why I have imaging   in my title.

My background is in brain   imaging. So, a lot of the work that went   into developing these tests was using   brain scanners, things like MRI and PET   posetron emission tomography. We use   that to validate the tests and to work   out which bits of the brain are involved   in the tests and these things. And of   course all of that's very much you know   in the research academic scientific   domain.

That's not the sort of thing   that uh everyday people can get their   hands on very easily. But of course with   the um with the advent of the worldwide   web and with computers becoming   completely ubiquitous, we've sort of   moved into a situation where that stuff   can be deployed into people's living   rooms.

Um and that's essentially what   we've managed to do with Crayos. we've   turned this uh uh into something that   was very much sort of I suppose in the   lab uh to something that uh you know can   now be out there in the world and people   can even even test themselves and assess   uh their various brain functions from   the comfort of their living room.

So   that's that's how things have really   changed. So for us for in terms of you   know the strategy here um we've talked a   little bit uh about you know getting to   the real world you mentioned the the   growth in in dementia. There are there's   kind of two you know big picture   questions.

One is figuring out how do   you distribute this level of testing and   we'll show we'll show in a minute you   know what you actually do and what the   actual patient experiences and the   second is the sort of the bigger   question of like what do we do about it.   So first off um what is your and Chris's   sort of philosophy of how to distribute   this? Is this a direct to consumer   product? Is this a uh product just for   neuroscientists and psychiatrists? Is   this a product for general practice? How   do you think what's the vector   distribution with?   >> Yeah. So so even that that has evolved   over over recent years. I mean Kos um as   a company has been around for a decade   but the tasks have been around for oh I   don't know 30 40 plus years. When we   first started, Matthew um I'm talking   like seven, eight years ago, we were   actually selling predominantly directly   to neurologists or other specialty   departments and they were solving a very   different problem. Um for neurologists   and other specialty departments, they   often had to refer out for neurosych

assessments that that um that process   was long and taxing for the patient and   also expensive for the patient. And so   we actually started building a base of   customers,   be it in private neurology or neurology   practices tied to various health   systems. It wasn't until very recently   that we've actually gotten more into   specifically primary care and   specifically in larger health systems.

And so who we sell to right now um tend   to be larger scale health health systems   primary care   >> and   what is the typical reason a primary   care doctor would adopt this if you're   talking about going down to the scale.   They have a ton of things on their   plate. There's a lot of complaints in   the US and I talk about primary care all   the time in terms of the this this you   know the the the amount of demands on   their time how they can't spend a lot of   time with people and they're obviously   dealing with a lot of chronic illness   and chronic disease. So   >> why would they care?   >> So there's a couple of reasons largely   external. So first of all Medicare   actually requires a cognitive screen to   be conducted as part of the annual   wellness visit. I'm not saying every   doctor does it but they're technically   required to do it. this was a a change   that's you know occurred over the last   five or five or 10 years. Um so there's   obviously some incentive or some require   some regulatory requirements to do it.

Secondly um especially in in various uh   you know you know just to be blunt about   it nothing really moves in healthcare   unless there's a payer model that backs   it. um the the incentives toward   something like a neurocognitive   assessment being done whether you're in   a full risk bearing capitated payment   group and valuebased care or fee for   service some of those payment models are   now more incentivized or are   incentivizing these assessments to be   done so I think you know that you can't   ignore the the financial aspects I think   that's part of it I also think that the   tools fit into workflow a lot easier   these days with the digitization of it   imagine like an MA coming in prior to   the digital world, you're putting an   MMSE or a slums or something in front of   the patient, the MA has to kind of go   through this set of questions. It's   long, it's taxing, they have to manually   score it. They have to scan that thing.   So, if you combine the workflow burden   along with the lack of financial

incentives that have been there to   actually do this, there's no, you know,   those are kind of the reasons why   something like this hasn't taken off.   Now that those models are catching up,   now that the digitization of these tools   has made workflow, uh, you know, a   problem of the past, there's been a lot   more uptake.

I think that's why the tide   is beginning to shift.   >> I see. And Adrian, just a quick one.   What's the right age for people to start   doing this? Clearly, I'm in my 60s, so   it's way too late for me, but you know,   at what point would would, you know,   with the democratization of these kinds   of tools, at what point should we be   starting people on this? I mean we know   that people in their 20s have you know   lighting up their brain faster than   people in their 40s but at what point do   we does it start matter   >> I mean yeah I mean as far as the   practicalities of the tests are   concerned we've we we validated these   things in people as young as four and as   old as as 98 I think um but I would say   people should be testing this throughout   their life it's like physical fitness   you know it's mental fitness is no   different uh it's multifaceted it's very   much the same thing that the earlier   that you can catch things that might be   going wrong, the more likely you are to   be able to do something about it. So,   this is something that, you know, I   don't necessarily think you need to   start at the age of four. But I think uh   you know, any uh adults, even young   adults, could benefit from regularly

checking their cognitive health in the   same way as they regularly check their   their physical health.   >> Yeah. Although to be to be honest, we   have a big problem figuring out how to   get people to check their physical   health in in the US and many other   countries as well. So, for us, why don't   we dive in? Why don't you show us what   the experience is like for somebody   who's now coming into a doctor is it   prominently in a doctor's office or a   home that's got   >> so it it we we can support both   workflows and I'll I'll touch on that um   as as part of this. So let me uh let me   share my screen again and just initially   just give you a high level overview. I'm   going to focus in on the primary care   product. Okay Matthew, we have a pretty   broad platform. We have 12   neurocognitive tasks. They each measure   different domains. Um, we have   additional screeners like the PHQ9 GAT7.   These are standardized screeners, not   nothing that we've created, but they're   also in part of this platform and can be   deployed. I'm going to focus in on just   what um, you know, what we're doing   today predominantly, which is uh, a   screener and assessment product to   detect uh, objective impairment in

primary care. So, let's get you situated   in the workflow of the clinic. Let's   assume this is an in-person assessment.   Okay. Uh, we have operationally we   integrate directly into the EMR. Um, you   know, our goal is that, um, MAS and   others don't even kind of know on a   name.

We're just part of the clinical   workflow where you would come in   typically with some kind of a tablet, an   iPad, or otherwise, you would open up   the patient chart, you would scan a QR   code, and literally hand the patient the   iPad. Okay? And I'll show you that   experience, but I want to describe how   this assessment first works.

So, every   single patient in primary care who does   our tasks has to go through two of them.   mandatory takes about four four and a   half minutes to complete on average.   Then we have an outcome that's produced   dynamically. The patient doesn't really   see it, but effectively this is step one   that we call the screener product.

Okay,   the screener product literally just   spits out whether we think further   testing is suggested or further testing   is not suggested. It's effectively a   machine learning algorithm that's   comparing four specific features of   these two tests and saying is the   performance more similar to that to that   of an impaired data set that we have or   more similar to that of the healthy   population.

If it's part of the healthy   population, great come back next year,   get rescreened and and go on. If further   testing is suggested and we still don't   have enough information to really   substantiate the nature of the   impairment, we tack on one additional   test. So, it's dynamic. It's going to   keep going until we feel like we've   collected enough information to either   rule in or rule out impairment.

And then   for a final tiny subset, they might even   need a fourth. Okay. At that point, the   assessment is more or less done unless   you've chosen to add additional modules   to round out the f the the the finding.   What we're effectively doing is trying   to align ourselves for the DSM5 criteria   for an impairment of this type.

looking   at whether there's activities of daily   living issues combined with an objective   impairment or subjective decline. So I   just want to that's the lay of the land   and let me actually show you what it is   that patients go through and what the   reporting output is.   >> Okay.   >> All right.

So um you can all see the   screen.   >> Yep.   >> All right. So basically iPad gets handed   this is really the first screen of the   iPad. All right. It's it's just a uh   some information that it can actually be   um it can actually be customized   depending on the health system we're   working with. you know, all these health   systems want their own messaging and   their own logo so the whole thing can   effectively be white labelled.

Um, I'm   going to click through a number of   screens that are just uh good, you know,   checks to do.   >> If somebody else yet again tells me on   the phone that if I'm having a medical   emergency online   prescription, I will strangle them. But   you can't strangle a machine. But I   mean, go ahead, start.

So, let's start   the assessment.   >> Go to the start line.   >> So, I'm task is called feature match and   it takes about two minutes. Click start   to learn how it works.   >> Okay, I'm going to turn off the audio   for a second and just chat about how   this is structured. So, we have every   single one of our tasks is voice enabled   so people can actually hear the   instructions uh and written.

So,   depending on whatever your learning   style is, we cater to that. We have a   tutorial period where you're kind of   watching and and being asked to uh act   on that. Once you've validated for us   that you actually understand it, we'll   then let you on to the task itself. So,   I'm going to I'm going to click start   uh and turn maybe turn on the voice so   you can hear it.

>> Look at the shapes in the boxes. Do they   match? If they do, click match. If not,   click mismatch.   >> Okay, so pretty simple one. Uh   basically, you're looking at all the   shapes in the two boxes and seeing if   there's a mismatch. Obviously, this   middle shape is different. Let's say I   didn't really understand it and I, you   know, click match.

We actually kind of   guide you. And this is where a lot of   these can be self- administered. You   don't often need an MA hovering or a   medical assistant hovering over the   patient to do this. So, we'll show you   how to solve it and then we put you on   the assessment. Okay. Now, let's talk   about this assessment.

So, this is a   pure task of attention. I'm going to   click start and show you that   experience. First of all, this is a time   task. It takes a minute 30. And we're   going to start you off really simple.   Even I even I can get these. So, this is   hopefully a mismatch. This is a   mismatch. But once you've proven to us,   once you've validated that you can   answer a couple of these correctly, we   we introduce additional items so that it   gets a little bit more challenging.

So   now I'm on three items. Now I'm on uh   four items and so on. If I start getting   them wrong, we actually reduce   difficulty. This ratcheting up and down   of the difficulty gives us really rich   performance information in a very short   amount of time. And in the background,   we're calculating all sorts of things   like, you know, the response time   between certain levels and how that   compares to the population and all all   these other metrics that effectively tie   into a percentile rank.

Um, the other   thing that's really important to note   about these tests is the next time I go   to do this, I'm getting a totally   different configuration of tests. I   can't memorize a match mismatch   sequence. That's really important when   you're reassessing people over, you   know, every six months or every year   because you want to see has their   cognitive decline, is there actual real   cognitive decline or um, you know, how   many times have I seen a patient walk in   and just repeat the same three words of   the mini cog over and over again. Um,   and you know, it's like crystallizing   their long-term memory. So, we're trying   to build a randomized assessment that is   new and fresh every time. You can see   here the time's winding down. Time winds   down. I just move on to the next test.   That's kind of the the gist of the   patient experience. And I I can demo one   more which is a memory test.   >> You you should demo the memory test   because we can just I did this when I   first met you and we can discuss how how   well I did.   >> That's actually pretty   this one where you show me numbers,   right? This is

>> that's the one. Okay. So this is a   visual spatial working memory test. And   again, one of the differences between   us, we measure, we're measuring like   core neuroscych uh neuroscychological   domains that are aligned to the DSM5 uh   for impairment detection. So, I'm going   to skip the tutorial because you you   already seen how how the tutorial works   and let's get to the to the test itself   and I'll kind of describe how this   works. Pretty simple.

Effectively, as   soon as uh as soon as you click start,   couple of boxes are shown on the screen.   Those boxes have numbers in them. You   have to memorize where the one was and   where the two was, and then they   disappear. So, the one was down here.   here. I'm going to click on those boxes   now in numerical order.

The one was   here. The two was here. Great. Now I'm   on to three boxes. So again, exact same   principles apply. The tasks get harder   as I answer correctly. It gets easier if   I tend to get one wrong. Okay? And you   can see this one isn't actually timed.   This is lifeline based. We're going to   challenge you up until the point where   you can no longer get it right.

And then   we're going to see how many times can   you actually continue to reach that   level. And we'll stop the test when you   get it wrong a few times. I think when I   got to about six, I was struggling   rightly.   >> Six and six. Six to seven is usually the   cut off for most individuals. So you're   not uh that's that's not abnormal.

>> There you go. You're struggling two or   six. I like it.   >> See, I already got that one wrong,   right? So you back to five. I see.   Right.   >> Exactly. So like that that's the gist of   it. Effectively, as soon as now that as   soon as the assessment ends, um the   patient doesn't obviously see their   results.

They just see something that   says, "Hey, you've completed the   assessment. You can put the iPad down   now or whatever." And the results are   immediately sent to either a flowheet in   the EMR or the PDF can land really   wherever um our clients uh want them to   land. And that   >> so Adrian, let me ask you what what   behind the scenes here, what what's   obviously there's memory and there's   there's what's what's going on? What do   we actually what do we actually uh test?   >> Very it's very interesting.

So the first   the first test we looked at as far as   said is a is a test of attention and   it's funny funnily enough only this   morning I was watching mice do that same   test exactly the same task in one of the   labs here at uh at western he's using   the same test   >> how much they outperform the average   human by quite a bit I would say   five times better than far I can tell   you um but no you know this test uh the   first test you looked at is based on   actually decades of studies is uh in   different species and in different sort   of types of humans. Humans in brain   scanners, humans with various uh   problems with their brains. Um and we   know it's extremely sensitive despite   the fact that it looks, I think,   deceptively simple. It's extremely   sensitive to the early signs of a   dementing illness. Uh it picks up very   early on when you are you stop being   capable of of of of attending to

multiple things at once. and we do it in   the simplest possible way. And in some   ways that's the best example we have I   think of where these tests have come   from which is you know we didn't back in   the day we didn't just say well you know   we've got these sort of paper and pencil   tests let's turn them into computerized   versions.

What we did is we said we've   got these brain tools let's work out how   we can test the brain better than we do   with these traditional tools. And that's   a really good example been used in many   labs around the world in mice uh in   humans as I say in brain scanners and so   on and so forth. That's an attentional   task.

The other test uh is even closer   to my heart. It's a test of working   memory. And that's what I did my PhD on   back in the uh late 80s and early 90s.   And it's a it's a test of working memory   is what we used to call short-term   memory. And it's basically memory where   you have to hold a few items uh for a   set period of time.

It doesn't have to   just be a short period of time, but um   and that version of it um is ex is is   extremely good because it involves both   remembering uh numbers and remembering   their location. So, it combines two   aspects of working memory together. And   again, it's really sensitive to damage   to the frontal lobe of the brain uh or   any sort of pathology that might involve   the frontal loes.

And joking aside, one   of the reasons we selected that test is   because chimpanzees are really good at   it, better than humans, in fact. Um,   right off the bat, it's uh it's there's   a few famous YouTube uh videos out there   of chimpanzees performing exactly that   task. So um one thing I noticed that and   I don't know if this is coming the later   test for us and we don't have to go and   show them but but obviously the the the   most famous sort of verbal cogn uh test   these days are the verbal ones that a   certain president of America has been   talking about man women chimpanze you   know can you repeat these back um uh and   I had your uh your your friends rivals   and colleagues from Linus on here a   while ago and they did a lot of verbal   tests what's going on in the difference   between sort of visual memory and verbal   test you is that tricking is that trick   triggering different stuff or are you   just getting to the same result in a   different way?   >> Matthew, I might defer that question to   actually Adrian because I think Adrian   will have a a much better   >> Sorry, I was aiming at Adrian with that   one. You just jumped in.

Sorry.   >> Absolutely. So, one of the things that   we I mean as I said you previously,   cognition is or cognitive fitness is   really like physical fitness in the   sense that you can't reduce it to a   single number. If I said to you, you   know, how fit are you? Are you a 32 or   are you a 45? It's meaningless, right?   You could be a sprinter, you could be a   marathon runner.

Which one of those two   people is is is fitter. Um, and   cognitive fitness is exactly the same.   And it's because the brain is a really   complicated organ. And we can have   damage to different parts of the brain   that are of course responsible for   different types of cognitive operations.   So things like visual working memory and   spatial working memory actually uh   activate or involve both overlapping   parts of the brain, the memory bit, but   also non-over overlapping parts, the   visual versus the verbal.

And this is   why we have 12 tests in the Crayo suite   because we're trying to look at   everything. We're trying to get a   cross-section where at the end of the   day, we can say, Matthew, your problem   is not just a, you know, a problem of   remembering things. It's a specific   problem of remember of say spatial   working memory.

Your problem is   remembering locations in shortterm   memory. So, we're really trying to   narrow these things down, not only in   terms of that, the cognitive profile,   which is what I've just said, but also   what does that mean for your brain? And   I can tell you that if your problem is   spatial working memory, then what's gone   wrong is something to do with what we   call the dorsalateral frontal cortex,   which is this area just above your   temple here.

Uh, and so that's the sort   of level of of of specificity we're   trying to get at here. not only what's   wrong with you precisely, but why is   that wrong with you?   >> So, uh, for us, that's that's that's a   great, I think, segway to go to. So,   what happens next, right? So, now I've   I've I've done this and you've you've   shown me this.

What what does the   professional the the the PA the GP what   do they get   >> for sure? Okay. So, let me let me move   to the to the clinical reporting that   gets produced. So effectively what you   get is a report that is looking at the   various DSM5 criteria for an impairment   in line with something like dementia and   we're looking to see well which of those   DSM5 criteria were actually triggered.

Okay. Now you need a clinician to come   in and validate these results and do   maybe a subjective decline test whatever   the remaining components of the DSM5   are. But what what we effectively   produce is a report that says, "Look,   there was objective impairment here and   if you've gone on and done the   questionnaires, there was an IDL   deficiency.

" So two out of the three   that you tested through creos actually   came back positive. You can add   additional things in this in this case,   we've actually also added a GAT 7 or   PHQ9. We have a very modular uh   assessment. You can add like some   systems like to add the IADL and a   subjective decline questionnaire. Some   systems like to yank all that out   because it already exists in the um in   the patients chart.

So they'll just   direct, you know, providers to to do it.   But effectively what we're showing you   is there was a multi-domain impairment   detected on our neurokcognitive   assessment and some of the other   criteria underneath were flagged. But   beyond that, to Adrian's point, we tell   you specifically where the deficit was.

In this case, it was a visual spatial   working memory deficit. we you see their   percentile rank relative to a a   normative database. We think it's   actually one of the largest normative   databases of cognitive function that   exists. We norm based on the person's   exact demographic. So, we're comparing a   75year-old to a 75year-old.

Um, and   you're seeing where you are relative to   a healthy normative population and where   that where that deficit actually is. So,   this is the reporting that tends to get   produced for clinicians to then come in   and say, "Okay, I'm going to validate   these findings and maybe I'll I'll rule   out that there's a dementing illness   here.

Maybe I'll I'll rule I'll I'll   rule it in."   >> So, that's right. So, they have this   now. And then Adrian, the obvious the   obvious question for you, which is, you   know, obviously been always been the   problem in in a world which we don't   have fantastic drugs or perhaps uh, you   know, to deal with to deal with   essentially advanced Alzheimer's and   advanced dementas.

If you knew this   stuff and especially if you caught it at   a relatively earlier age, you know,   people in their 60s or even earlier, you   know, before they get into to to later   stages of of of aging, what can you do   about it? What's what's the sort of if I   get this, what's the so what other than,   you know, confirming about suspect about   a particular individual?   >> Yeah. All right.

This there's there's   two answers to this question, Matthew.   The first one is is obviously drugs.   There are more than excuse me there are   more than 100 clinical trials going on   for Alzheimer's busting drugs right now.   Yeah. Um you know the results are all   over the map. But what is coming out   from these trials is is is it's very   clear that the earlier you can uh get   get in the better.

Right? So we do know   down the line that you know when it   comes to the stage that we've got good   drugs that can deal with these problems   um the earlier we can detect these   issues the better those drugs are likely   to act. But an answer for today is   really about lifestyle choices and a lot   of people don't realize you know there   are lifestyle changes we can make and   they are related to the risk factors   that we know are associated with   developing a a dementing illness.

So you   know we know for example that obesity is   a risk factor for uh an increase uh in   dementia and of course that is something   that uh if you uh detect early on that   you are experiencing some uh cognitive   difficulties that's a lifestyle change   you can that's a lifestyle choice that   you you know you can potentially change.

>> There are these drugs that are quite   effective against this obesity stuff and   you can afford them in Canada. We can't   afford them down here,   >> right?   >> Exercise.   >> The Danes and the folks from   Indianapolis are making out like band.   It's amazing. You know, I've heard   rumors that, you know, there's there's   some obviously scientific work being   done that shows it's not just obescing,   but it's also heart disease and   Alzheimer's and other stuff.

>> Exactly. But you know, blood pressure uh   again blood pressure it's risk factor.   Um we have drugs that can deal with   blood pressure. So, so there are and we   we we we published a paper just two   years ago looking at um cognition across   the lifespan. Uh and we showed that, you   know, there really isn't a magic bullet.

It isn't that if you just exercise more,   you're going to, you know, say stave off   dementia. If you eat, you know, enough   blueberries, you're going to stave off   dementia. But there are many many   factors, many lifestyle choices that do   affect that are risk factors that do   affect your probability of going on to   developing a dementing illness.

And you   can make those, you know, these are all   changes that people can make in their   lives. But I fear that, you know, people   are only likely to make these changes uh   if they're monitoring themselves and   they realize as early as they can that   things might be slipping. And and   typically, you know, you know very well   um because it's very well documented   that typically by the time people   realize they have a problem, it's way   too late.

Uh you're well on the road to   a, you know, a serious uh illness at the   point that you start to think, hang on,   my memory is slipping. Uh and the only   way to, you know, to to to deal with   that is with regular uh assessments with   something that's sensitive enough to   pick up small changes. And you know the   obvious sort of question there for I   mean I haven't I have I've done various   tests mostly in trade shows so probably   not being captured in in the best places   but but most people you know and   speaking as a guy in his early 60s you   know there are things I clearly I don't   remember names quite as well as I used   to you know I'm not I'm not there there   are things I used to retain better you   know I'm not as functionally smart as I   was you know in my 30s and 40s and   probably my 20s. has gone haven't tested   it. And and some of that's to be   expected, right? Some of that just   happens as as you get older. And there   are probably good reasons why we should   have, you know, age limits for certain   people in CERTAIN POSITIONS OF POWER,   BUT that's another topic.

How much in in crios is like saying,   excuse me, that you're deviating from   the average. This is a natural, you   know, sort of progression of of memory   loss and this is okay, you're you've now   got a specific problem that you can work   on. That's a it's a really great   question and I would say that it's just   as important that we identify I don't   can't remember what you called it normal   aging if you like you know just healthy   aging it's as important that we identify   that as we identify people with the   problem because you know we have a world   full of what we often refer to as the   worried well you know people who are   just uh getting on a bit and are you   know their memor is slipping their   attention slipping uh those people you   know might want to be reassured that   this is just part of the you know the   normal course of things and that's   something that we very much focus on   with uh with Crayos because we have so   many members of the general population   have contributed uh their brains. I mean

we have a a uh a database of about   85,000 people who've told us a lot about   themselves and a lot of they've they've   um done the platform done the tests   sometimes many many times uh but I think   we have upwards of beyond 10 million   tests have been completed now so we have   a really really good sense of what   normal aging looks like or even what   normal anything looks like at any age   and it is really important a for the   reasons I've just said that uh you know   you might want to reassure people but   also for for planning right you don't   want to spend a lot of time and money   planning uh you know your demise if   you're you're not about to you know go   down that road if you actually you know   you're just aging like the rest of us so   I think it is important that we can uh   you know both identify genuine   pathological deterioration where it's   occurring but also normal or healthy   aging where that's occurring too   >> and Matthew just practically ally

speaking like in the product we do track   decline. we we actually if you if you   know so you you come in maybe you're   diagnosed with an MCI and you just want   to track that individual over six months   to see how they're declining we track it   um and we actually show you the trend   line over time not just you know a lot   of good reasons for why there might be   fluctuation in cognitive function but we   we actually try and show you what we   call a meaningful decline from baseline   which is a decline that's occurred   outside the band bounds of chance alone   and that tends to hold a lot of weight   um with providers because now it's a   personal baseline over time and we're   statistically calculating what a   meaningful decline might look like and   we and we display it back for   >> uh we also we could also track   improvement of course for us uh you know   if you are if you're interested in   whether exercise is going to uh improve   your uh cognitive performance we could   track that just as easily and we we do   through a bunch of studies going on in   the lab at the moment   >> works both ways meaningful

>> that's fascinating I think you know   you're seeing currently And you know   this is not the topic of where you guys   are heading but in the longevity   movement and people want to take   peptides and all this other good stuff.   there's a lot of interest in you know   what can people do to prong prolong   physical and mental health I guess   waiting to the fact that you know you   can put your brain into the uh into the   the the generative of AI and achieve a   singularity or whatever but there was a   lot clearly a great deal of interest in   people and even I have taken uh I I went   to a company called u um good good labs   which uh will let me when I'm giving   blood which I do as a sort of nice thing   to do for the world they're now giving   me the kind of 95 different or 150   different biomarkers or what have you   and and uh you're starting to see a   number of of of primary care docs and   concier dos and others who are starting   to bring that in and now you can ask   chat GPT will talk to you about or   another version LM will start talking to   you about your biomarkers. So I can   imagine this being part of that pattern   as you can probably have a a general

part of looking at your overall health   because people are as they're getting   older much more interested in that   stuff. I think younger people are   interested much more interested in that   too than you know probably were when you   and I were going to using the NHS   Adrian.

Anyway, um so let's let's uh is   there for us? Do you have more to show   me on the report?   >> The only thing I was going to show just   to answer even a a prior question we we   do actually like we try and cover this   is this is again a way that we   differentiate. We try and cover the full   spectrum from screening to assessment to   cognitive care planning.

Cognitive care   planning is not something that we've   developed. This is a um there's a CPT   code like a reimbursement code   specifically for this version of   cognitive care planning. The only thing   I was going to say is there's some very   good practical reasons to know if you're   on that path. There's home safety   concerns.

One of the biggest reasons why   um you know people over the age of 65   end up in the ER is due to a dementia   related fall. There's medication   management issues. So the cognitive   testing care plan that we've developed   tries to look at all of those factors,   look at the risk um among a variety of   vectors for someone who's actually   diagnosed with with dementia and tries   to actually build an intervention plan   with caregiver roles.

Like the   caregivers bear the brunt of that   burden, right? Like they're the ones who   have to spend day and night caring for   that patient and making sure they're   safe. So we do have a third part of our   uh platform that I I haven't shown today   to try and address what happens next,   >> right? No, that's that's that's uh   that's fascinating.

I mean, I think you   know what you're getting at is that as   people get older, as people develop, you   are and now obviously with the   proponents of chronic disease, obviously   we have drugs and attempts to get at it,   but there is a whole care planning   aspect which frankly we've done a   terrible job at.

And you know, I think   uh there are a lot of people who who who   are in the sort of uh care at home,   hospital, home, caregiving movement   trying to figure out, okay, what are the   things you can do? and and I think uh   more and more all these different types   of testing going to come into it. So   essentially the the biomarkers that   you're providing through the through the   neurological testing are going to be a   big part of that.

So with that said um   let's talk a little bit about you know   the sort of uh the the the company I   mean first off on a basic level you're   trying to get this into primary care. Um   how many h how many primary care you   mentioned Medicare um annual wellness   with this which I think is still below   50% of Medicare recipients actually even   get their wellness with even though it's   three and I don't know what it is in the   non Medicare population in the US.

I   don't know what it's like in Canada but   G give me a flavor of how many people   are getting some kind of neurological   test and then where is Kos in that kind   of you know how where are you in that uh   in that give me some numbers on that.   Yeah, I think I think you're right. It's   about 40 or 50% um are getting some kind   like individual over the 6 over the age   of 65 is getting some kind of screen in   a primary care setting.

Um we we did I   mean I can give you some cold hard   numbers from last year. We did about 2   million assessments last year. Um we are   serving uh about 10 to 15 health systems   right now. some names that I can   probably mention folks like um Oak   Street Health uh a CVS company that's a   full risk bearing entity uh folks like   Chenmed these are senior focused primary   care clinics that are uh capitated   Amazon one medical and then some larger   health systems like um Advocate Health   as an example is is is our group   >> I would point out I'm a member of Amazon   one medical they have not launched this   >> they haven't sent you your I gota I got   I got to tell my I got to tell my folks   have a word but They also they also   acquired um Iora which was the same   >> health they also acquired   >> which is similar to men and one   >> yes that's their full respect   >> I can imagine those because are you   seeing I mean that makes a lot of sense   right because those capitated uh senior

senior senior care senior care clinics   you know are the kind of people who who   should be focusing on the whole care are   you seeing this sort of leech out to the   more general Medicare population and   more general primary care yet or not yet   >> yes we are but it's definitely slower   than the than the valuebased care side.

I think the incentives financially on   the value based care side far exceed   what you get in the health systems. That   being said, there are specific   initiatives like for instance the brain   navigator program that's becoming more   and more common. This is a program   that's I don't know if it's centralized   but there's like four or five groups   that are working on this now and doing   it in uh in certain health systems where   um after a primary care screening   there's a specific group of people who   are hired to actually work with those   patients diagnose them better and do all   that stuff. So I it's the tide is   turning and it's not you know it's it   hasn't been um a rapid rapid uh uh you   know ascent into this world but it's   it's it's certainly growing.   >> Yeah. Um and I think that you know it's   it's part of what I just mentioned. It's   part of a general notion that we do we   understand that we now have to if you   can bring resources to bear on you know   people who are have more different types   of health challenges or whatever they   are and you can stop them getting in the

hospital and stop them crashing and stop   you know stop a bunch of stuff and you   mentioned you know falls at home or   whatever else you spend a lot we spend a   lot of money on rescuing people who've   already had a disaster in this country   especially in the US you know there's a   lot of opportunity to to to to to to to   do better and to to catch them earlier   and you're seeing a lot of funding in   the VC world going to kind of you know   not exactly the the Oak Streets of the   world but equivalent kinds of groups and   folks like devoted in the uh medical   punish world have now got you know their   own their own sort of at home   >> task force who manage this you know   because those very sick people need a   lot of help right   >> so so let let's um let's talk a little   bit about Krauss as a company you   mentioned uh Adrian you said you've been   working on this since 1988 or something   so it's been going a while and the   company's 10 years old. Give me a flavor   uh for us of of you said you mentioned   13 health systems or how many facilities   you in, which countries are you in? Uh   how big company? How much money you   raise? Give me a flavor of of where you   are as an organization.

>> So we uh we have about a 100ish plus   employees growing. I I I never know what   the actual number is, but we're we're   around that size. Um the company was   founded Adrian, you would know better   about 10 years ago, I would say. 11   years ago,   >> 2014. Yeah. Yeah. 2014. So, so about 12   years ago,   uh we the our customer base is almost   90ish% maybe more in in the US   specifically.

Um we uh graduated, you   know, we used to target a lot more   smaller private just fee for service   clinics trying to get a foothold into   the uh the market through specialty,   right? Specialty really understood how   to they understood the value like   neurology immediately understands the   value. they understand how to read the   reports and that's where we really got   started before some of the payer models   caught up at which point in about 2020   2023 2024 especially with the onset of   V28 of the CMS risk adjustment model.

>> Sure. um when that when that really came   to fruition uh we got a ton more inbound   inquiries around like screening products   for for primary care and I think that's   where we really started the venture to   get into more enterprise health system   type clinics   >> and as a company how much money have you   raised   >> so uh we are a private company Matthew   um we've taken a modest amount of   investment I don't know that we can   disclose the uh the full figure but I   know that um uh You're very modest   Canadians. You know, a few Americans,   you'll be boasting we raised $78 billion   in around 10 minutes ago at a valuation   of 58 billion. But   >> no, what I can tell you, we're we're   well very well capitalized to get to   where we need to.   >> Okay. And then let's talk about this   getting to where you need to because   there's two factors here, right? So one   is how much can you as Kos you know   penetrate the marketing and get into and   the sec second thing is you know how do   you get rewarded and paid for this? Are   you basically on a subscription level or   per usage?   >> Yeah, exactly. So, it's a subscription

model where uh we have different tiers   depending on how many annual patients   you'll be assessing and you pay per   patient per year effectively. Um it's   not a pay as you go. So, you you might   commit to 100 patients. You might commit   to 5,000 patients. The what you commit   to dictates the price per patient you   pay.

Obviously, if you commit to higher   volumes, you get a lower price per   patient. Uh and uh that's that's   effectively how the pricing model works.   And how do and and how do you uh worry   about and I always worry about this when   you're pricing in pricing a sort of a   test or a service in in healthcare is   that you want people to use it because   you think it's going to you know   eventually save them money and help them   overall.

Um on the other hand if   especially they're in a sort of you if   they're in a value based or capitated   environment at some point if they're   spending too much money on you they   might not what's the ROI of doing it?   So,   is there a is there a way you think   about, you know, what's the long-term   pricing strategy here? And and this is   connected to my next question, which is   going to be, okay, that's probably a   higher number than if you go direct to   consumer, but is there but this   obviously clearly could be a direct to   consumer product. There's a lot of   interest in direct to consumer stuff.   So, how are you thinking about those two   things together?   >> Well, it's sort of interesting you   mentioned direct to consumer. I mean, a   long time ago, Adrian, how many years   ago was that? like nine years ago, I   think we had a um actually Adrian, maybe   you can talk about like the the origins   of this were actually consumers coming   to Cambridgebrainsciences.com   and doing the tests which we then turned   into a consumer-like product. I think   one of the challenges, Matthew, we we   got into is everyone wanted to know like

well like what do I do? Like I that's   where doctors come in, right? Like   that's where the specialty folks come in   to actually say like well this is what   we could do based on these results and   so on and so forth. But Adrian, maybe   you could talk a little bit about just   the fact that you put these tests online   and how many how many millions of people   would were would come to that.

>> Yeah, we I mean initially this is before   the company was spun off out of my lab,   Matthew. We put we uh we built the   platform and then and put the the tests   online and we had about a million people   uh using the tests regularly fairly   quickly and that's one of the ways that   we used to build up the database that we   have sort of normative database if you   like and you know by that I mean these   are truly normal in the sense that uh   there are people from all walks of life   with all sorts of pathologies in our you   know massive database that we can look   at. Um, but it got the more   sophisticated we got with the   information that we could provide   people, the more complicated it got. And   you know, you're seeing this all over   the place. I mean, companies like 23 and   me are having exactly the same kind of   issue that once you start to give people   really uh very precise information about   uh you know about their their cognitive   performance. Um then they very quickly   ask questions that really they should be   discussing with their doctor about you   know why am I better at this? Why am I   worse at that? uh what can I do about

this? Um and I you know certainly   running it from my lab I wasn't in a   position to be able to offer that sort   of information. Uh so part of the reason   for yeah spinning things out were were   so that we could you know spread our   wings if you like and uh and uh and   accommodate this. But um you know it   this is still a very thin sort of a fine   line that one has to sort of tread I   think between providing people with   information they can't get in any other   way uh and what they do with that   information. And for the most part you   know we're talking about people's health   here. Um and whilst on the one hand we   want to make it possible for people to   uh assess their own cognitive health and   spot problems when they occur in many   cases the next step is that they go and   see a professional to work out what to   do about that. And we've I think we   found the right balance between those   those two things. And you know we don't   make claims about diagnosing people on

the spot but we do make suggestions that   you know people might want to go and   discuss issues they're having with their   doctor for example. So   >> you know that might change it might   change in the future. I mean with AI   right like all of these what is it um   open AI health or chat GPT health a a   new a new way of discussing your health   results with um a computer effectively.

I think the better the inputs are an   input potentially being kos um the the   more selfsufficient   some of those results and explanations   might get. So, who knows? Maybe there's   a future where we we we do venture into   that world.   >> Well, I think you know we're it's going   to be blended for a while, right?   Because you do have people doing the   sell I mentioned the functions and the   good labs and the super for their   testing and people putting those into   the and some of them now have an AI   chatbot built in which you know talks to   you about that. Uh, I've had a lot of   issues with my knee and my heart lately   and I've been putting all those reports   from the radiologists, those dry   radiology reports into Claude and   ChatgBT and Gemini and ask them what   they think about it and what should I do   and you know there's a lot of self   management and there are what 50 60   million people apparently already using   open AI alone just for for uh for for   health. Um, but obviously as Adrian   says, you know, at some point,   especially if we're dealing with early   stage dementia, you know, you need to   get somebody into a care system. Um, and

so these things, so I I think what I'm   hearing you for the for the moment, this   is going to be staying a product that   you're going to continue to sell to   health systems and primary care doctors   and and neurology departments and stuff   in the ground. So, um, last question   then.

What does what does good look   like? when we come back here in three   years, does everybody in America take a   creass test? Is or everyone in the world   take taking this test? You know, what   what's your expectation of of how you   know how if you guys do a good job um   how far this spreads and and how much it   gets baked into sort of the the   mainstream of of American primary care?   >> For sure.

I think that's a great   question and we we look at this uh in a   number of ways but starting with well   just how many Medicare lives are there   um call it 62ish million something like   that uh you know if we get to a point in   a couple years where 10 to 20% of them   just 10 to 20% are getting screened with   Crayos I think we will have done a lot   of good in the world um from a health   system perspective you know I said we   have about 10 to 15 right now if we can   get to about 40 in 12 to 18 months   Um, I think we'll be quite content.   That's kind of our short-term plan. And   just longer term, we want obviously   everyone in the Medicare population to   get a standardized Crayo screen as part   of their annual wellness visit.   >> Right. And I'll be applying for my own   screen in advance because as Adrian   said, I should have started 20 years   ago. It's   >> never too late, Matthew. It's never too   late.   >> Never too late. That's what they said.   I've actually I'm having a knee s knee   surgery. I have a knee replacement about   three months. I just went back to the   weight room because they said, you know,

>> make build up that quad before you get   the surgery and it's it's it's it's all   it's all it's everything's a muscle you   have to keep keep using or else you lose   it obviously.   >> Fantastic. All right. Well, enough of my   personal personal trauma. I've been   speaking with Shafagi and Adrian Owen uh   chief product officer and chief   scientific officer of Krauss who showed   us uh their tool for um co assessment.

Thanks J.   >> Thank you so much Matthew.