Title: Ami Parekh & Ankoor Shah, Included Health
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uYhQSaVHrY8
Language: en
Duration: 56:16
Upload Date: Unknown

Transcription:

Hi, Matthew with the healthcare blog here with a special chat. I have with me on the left Amy Parrick and on the right Anchor Shaw. They are the head honchos of the clinical team at included health. Amy has a chief health officer and I think Anchor is the director of clinical excellence. I probably got that wrong. Something something in that vein. Close enough. Uh both MDs. Uh those of you who've been following this digital health stuff for a while know that included health is uh born as grand

rounds um merged with doctor on demand and included health a few years back and is one of those companies which is straddling the line between navigation and also uh direct care delivery. And these two in particular have thought a lot about what are the kinds of ways that we should be treating patients and managing their care um in kind of a modern era. So we have a world in which you know we diving too too often those you read seen my stuff know that we have a disjointed if if non-existent primary

care world. We have a lot of specialists doing stuff in a disjointed manner. Um, and a lot of hospitals can make a lot of money by doing intensive surgery and probably none of that is the way that we would get to the best population health outcomes we wanted to. So, um, great to see both of you, Amy. We talked, I know, 18 months ago, a couple of years ago, uh, about some of this stuff, but, uh, let let's dive in a little bit. Um, I if we were to sort of start philosophically, um, with you and then

we can get anchor. What are the major problems? So, I described some at a very high high level there. What are the major problems that you see when especially when you guys come to a a a new customer or a new population group that you're working on with included health? What what's what's wrong? And then we'll talk about how we're going to fix it. Great. Um well, Matthew, first of all, thank you so much for having us. This is it's always fun to talk to you whether we're doing it in person or virtually.

Uh last time we had the joy of doing it in person, so maybe next time we'll we'll bring that back up. Um my so I like to start at the highest level and then work my way down. So at the highest level when we talk to a purchaser of healthcare the problems are actually pretty basic. They pay too much money for not great outcomes. Period. Full stop. And when I say they pay too much money for not great outcomes, what does that mean? That means for companies who are in retail or technology or they're a

state, let's say, and they have to like have firemen and women and policemen and women and teachers. The cost of their health care is becoming one of the number one costs that their CFOs have to deal with. It's going up year-over-year. This year, they're looking at double digit increases. So, it's a major line item in their cost thing. And that's just hard to run a business when you have such a big cost item. And then they're not getting the outcomes they deserve. And what does that mean? That

means that their employees or their associates or the people that they are they have accountability towards to provide for their healthcare, they're living shorter, less healthy lives. They're unable to show up for work the way they want to. They're unable to show up for their lives and their families the way they want to. So, we pay a lot. And if you're paying a lot, but then you get this amazing outcome, maybe you're okay with it, actually, because you're like, "Hey, I'm

paying a lot, but my people are showing up to work every day, excited to be here, engaged, they can do the things they love for their families, they can snowboard if they want to, you know, it's worth the money." Um, but when you're paying a lot and not getting the outcomes, you've got a problem. So that's the fundamental problem our clients come to us with uh when they're thinking about hey we need to do something differently because we've been doing the same thing over and over again

and not actually moving the needle on these two things. What does that mean at the member level? So that means that if you're a member and I'm a member, right? I have to have health insurance. My family has health insurance. You're frustrated. You're annoyed. You're not living your best life. Um, you know, health care, it's not something you wake up every day. I mean, for most people, maybe there's a few, you're not like, I can't wait to see the doctor today. Um,

I might be your doctor and really want to see you, but that's usually not the patient coming in, right? You're more like, this is something I'm doing because I want to lead a longer, healthier life. I want to do the things I love and I want to prevent getting sick or if I am sick, I want to prevent the suffering from it and I want to get the best outcome. That is not the experience of members today. If you're a human in America, uh, and you will have a health care problem, 100% of you will.

Sorry for that update, but 100% of people are going to have a healthare need in their lifetime and they leave with a frustrating, annoying, and not great result. And with so much money now being paid out of pocket by people, you also might go financially bankrupt because of your healthcare need. And so those are the problems. Um, good news. I'm an optimist at heart, so I think we can solve all of these problems. Um, but that's the problem statement in my head. Uh, I don't know, Anor, did I miss

anything? Matthew, what would you add? Yeah, I um, it's really around the problem we're trying to solve is how is health care so different than every other part of our life. So, it's really framing around we're trying to make healthc care like how we actually interact with other technology like how I watch Netflix and it's really what the consumer what the patient wants like what I want what Amy wants what you want is care when we want it where we want it how we want it uh that's affordable and

very personalized and that actually makes me healthier and that's like a very demanding consumer so we are really trying to orient and I That's the way to actually solve the problem is orient around that very demanding need for a patient that we all have and if we create that experience for that then all those other squeli that Amy mentioned around cost and outcomes actually come true. Okay. So, so two things about that. The first one is and this is just sort of a factual question. We hear a lot about

chronic disease. God knows we're hearing way too much about it now from our alleged secretary of health and human services. I call him a legend because there's lots of things coming out of his mouth that aren't true. But I mean, I think it's true that, you know, the impact of of chronic disease is clearly growing. Um, and I want to know how much you're seeing that in your populations because you're saying it doesn't, you know, it really the health meeting the rubber hits the health system when

someone has a consistent demand for it. Um, so that's a sort of a question as to how much the growth of that is impacting you. And then the sort of the the the wider uh the wider question is is when Owen started Ground Rounds back in back in the day this was a company based on you know initially second opinions and then sort of especially networks and then figuring out where people should go when they got sick right and we have for decades I sat in Alan Hobin's class in 1990 at Stanford Business School

explaining how you know half the surgeries done shouldn't have been done and you know the variation in price from the Dartmouth people was just starting to get studied and and found that you know people were doing three times the amount of surgery at double the price in some areas compared to others. We've had people talking about that forever. Um so we don't seem to you know have we done much about it globally. So first thing is how sick are people? Are they getting sicker? And second are we getting

anywhere with this management of the especially chaos? Um I'll I'll give it a go. uh people are people have more chronic conditions and we see that even in the commercial population. So I think as you know about us we our current area of focus is working Americans and their families. Yeah. I I I bullied your boss about this and he said we're not doing Medicare yet. So although it does pay for navigation services now doing I'm going to take that note Tim but the um you should take all your business

strategy from me. I assume. Okay, go on. Um, so even in working Americans and their families, and Uncle can probably speak to this, even in children, we are seeing an increase in chronic conditions. And one of the myths out there, I think, is actually that people with chronic conditions won't engage with care virtually, like they're going to want to go in person to their clinicians. And we actually found in our virtual primary care practice, a number of the people who benefit the most from

virtual care are people with three or more chronic conditions. Um, and so that's the other sort of I'd say trend you're seeing that many people don't just have one chronic condition. So you've got an overall increase like number of people with more than one chronic condition. I'd put it like 40%. And then a large more and more of those though don't just have one. like you don't just have diabetes, you have diabetes and hypertension or you don't just have osteoarthritis, you have

osteoarthritis and uh diabetes and most of the time you also have a behavioral health condition on top of those sort of chronic physical conditions. And so we're absolutely seeing that trend. And I think the way that's showing up is, you know, we all talk about the delay in care that happened during CO um and people just put stuff off, you know, for for all the right or you know, reasonable reasons. And now we're seeing trends go up a lot. We're seeing medical utilization go up. Some of that is this

buildup. It's this buildup of chronic conditions that have uh not been managed well uh over the last let's say three to four years and now we're seeing the implications of that on sort of more high high-c cost needs of that population. So you're right on on the dem on the needs of the population. They are increasing um and if we manage them well hopefully we can reverse that trend. I don't think it's irreversible in any way. Um, your second question, um, and I'm gonna have to remind myself

what it was. Uh, it's it's about the the the management of sort of specialty care and hospital care in general. Have we, you know, and the variation in that and the variation in cost and the variation in in the types of, you know, the idea that you get, you know, the same person in Seattle gets gets a different treatment they would get if they were in Miami, that kind of stuff. I think we saw a lot of opportunity there. Um so you know what what included has said is that within a broad network

often a PO broad network we can steer you the member to the best match clinician for you. Um and that's a lot of the way we drive savings for our clients honestly. We sort of minimize the variation of the quality of clinicians that a population is seeing at scale. Um, and that's a huge driver of the value we give to our clients. I think if you were look America wide at a those 160 million people who get their insurance from their employers, that variation is still stark, especially in places like PO networks because the

these are just broad networks. Um, and there's very little reason for a plan to sort of narrow that network, right? Um, that's my so still a lot of room to go. And even where they narrow it in HMO network, I'm not sure they've done the sort of rigorous scientific backing about who's in the network and not based on quality and cost as opposed to who signed up or who was going to sort of there's an inherent conflict there, right? They like they want to have a network. They care a lot about costs

like do they also care about quality. There's just inherent when you are owning the network and the one that's measuring the quality and cost. There's a there's a little bit of a just a conflict based on that. So Aaron, let's dive into that a little bit. So what is your philosophy about how you and there is there's you know a lot of people have a lot of moving parts here but um how is what's your philosophy about how you are uh you know dealing with clinical excellence amongst the people

you choose? So how how do you start included and obviously you look you've done this in your you know real life as a doctor as pediatrician I know you were at ETA looking at this for health systems how are we you know how are you thinking about fixing this issue of sort of clinical variation and lack of clinical excellence and quality in a in a specialy network. Yeah. So the framework we use is like if you kind of go down first is safety like are we ensuring that people are actually connected and getting to safe care and

then you get to actually what is the quality of care they're receiving and the effectiveness of that care which is now in two different arenas. Quality of care is probably evidence-based care that is being delivered that we can measure and see and then are we actually driving towards better outcomes or reduce utilization. So for example um in our virtual urgent care practice we're actually resolving over 95% of cases that you do not need to go to a brickandmortar urgent care or ER. So that is a metric because it solves a

member problem, solves a patient problem and you know you're delivering right care and this is where I think we are really pushing the innovation bubble because traditionally like healthcare metrics haven't changed in decades like heismetric is frankly so it's a little in uninspiring and so if we reorient to we want the member to have actually healthier days at the end of the day it's about adding more healthy days in your week or in your month. And if we use that as our orientation, then we're able to say,

"All right, what are the interventions that drive that?" So that's around first safety, then quality, then effectiveness, and then actually cost. So what Amy was mentioning before, usually what we've seen in the industry is the flip. It's cost first, but versus value is really quality over cost. So it's really using that framework whether it's the services we deliver and we're able to then innovate a lot more be more AI first in that same approach or how we evaluate other provider networks and

other kind of care delivery systems. So let me sort of I get that for the for the specialty network. Um obviously a lot of this stuff is about who and we mentioned the increase in in chronic illness and and there obviously other demands on the system. You know we mentioned behavioral health and mental health which you know the demands have gone up dramatically. We know well either we're counting them better or we know the rates of depression anxiety you know went up dramatically since the pandemic and probably haven't helped

probably haven't gone down since the election you might guess. Um, so you've got the sort of the output, how you're managing the the the specialist network and the hospitals and trying to rate them on these different measures. And we can dive in a little bit more as to how you how you're doing that. But on the input side, um most you know, you've got a lot of issues coming through maybe coming through beh and and if you go the policy wants about if we could give everyone primary care

and we could manage their primary care and get them to behave properly blah blah all this stuff it would it would save a lot more money in the long run and we have better healthy you know better healthier populations towards the end. Um I given the problems we have with you know chronic illness and elsewhere is that something we can actually do number one and number two how are you thinking about doing it given the sort of the virtual primary care network that you're running? Yeah. Do you want to start? Yeah. Um

well I'll say one thing that we didn't mention is with the rising chronic disease there's a demand problem right there's increasing demand there's actually a supply problem as well so the reason why much of this is happening is you actually don't have access to highquality primary care that's longitudinal in nature and so I think one thing that um Amy and I and all of us at included health are uh excited about is this first dollar telealth coverage that was recently passed which

then gives employers an opportunity to expand access without while still considering affordability for the member for different type of care for virtual care services including primary care. So that is probably like the first thing is around access and then ensuring that longitudinal care relationship where you're able to not stick to a 15minute visit where you have to talk about everything. You actually we're on this journey together to manage your chronic conditions. Yeah. I guess to so Enor mentioned

access as one key way we get people anyone who wants it to have high quality primary care but I also think uh we're at this really opportune moment uh and and maybe it'll require us to redefine what we mean by primary care because primary care is a tool that we in healthcare use. It's like a very healthcare jargony word actually. Like if you were to ask five people on the street, hey what's primary care? I bet you you'd get five different answers and some people would just stare at you

being like, I don't know what's secondary care. Like, you tell me. Um, and what it means in my head is that you have somebody who you trust that lives within the highway that is healthcare um that can help you make decisions about your health care um to achieve your own goals. And they come with some level of expertise. So they actually know things like, "Hey, you should use this medicine or this medicine." So that's how I define primary care that most of the time it's a person, but hey,

we're like really in this world of AI right now. And I know you're going to talk to Owen at some point about how we're using AI, but could some of that be taken over by a tool that is not another human, but is supported by a human? could I mean I think this is like the first time in my 20 years of working healthcare that I'm like maybe there is a solution to this supply problem that Encort was talking about. We've done a lot by enabling virtual access. So if you're rural you can get access but the

next phase is maybe not everything has to go through a human. Maybe you can have a trusted relationship with the AI plus EQ, right? That actually gets you to better health because that's the goal. And so I think we're going to it's going to be an interesting decade of really trying to define what primary care means from the member or the person perspective and not necessarily from the health care systems perspective which is always the way we want to define everything. Um, and then we're going to be able to drive

those outcomes because the proof points are in countries that have a higher general practitioner or primary care ratio to population. In places like in Kaiser or in other integrated health care, vertically integrated healthcare delivery systems where people start with their primary care doctor before going to a specialist, they get better outcomes. They live longer, healthier lives. And that's really what we're trying to go for. Primary care is a major tool to get there. Um, and now we have this thing called AI where maybe we

can scale it better. Maybe we can make it more personalized for people. Um, so I'm I'm very excited for this next era of primary care. Well, that's because they're all healthy and sitting in Portugal with their primary care clinics and their, you know, eating their sardines draped in drowned in olive oil and drinking red wine and eating grapes and enjoying themselves. Um, so before we get there, I I think there's a there's a ton of there's a ton of of and look, I'm I'm a

big believer in in uh primary care. I mean, I wrote this piece just saying that we should give every primary care doctor 600 patients and uh and $1.2 million and let them get on with it and that would probably improve healthare. Um, but in you know, and if you look at the the humanity data about how they manage their value based care versus their other their other care, they're spending nearly three times as much on primary care and seem to be getting better results. and yada yada. So I think you know the policy one because

we're all bought in um but there's a couple of things before you even put AI on the on the sides for the moment what you guys have been doing and included and and obviously you're not the only people who've been doing this for for many years is providing uh tellaalthbased primary care and there seem to be a couple of issues there one is getting past the regulation of you know a doctor has to be licensed in New Jersey we see somebody in New Jersey that whole piece seems to be really

gummed up by the the traditional healthcare medical system and you know the regulation and the other one is that there is still I think a fair amount of uncertainty and this is why in my view and I'd love your comments on this it's been a bit tricky to get non-mental health teller health really uh going as to what can you do in a virtual consult that you you know and where do you need to actually physically go and touch somebody you know touch human um so I love your comments on both of those are

we getting better on the regulation side is this going to go away as a problem let alone before we start doing AI across state lines or what are we going to do with AI? And then on the other the second question here is is you know how do we convince to people or how are you working to to to to actually convince people this virtual primary care works even if I can't physically touch you? Yeah, I'll start and then anor add. Yeah. So I don't think state licensing boards are going anywhere. Um states need money

budgets like there's the whole reason this industry exists, right? And so I I I think it doesn't go anywhere. I do think it so all your doctors still have to be licensed in 50 states or or that BS has to happen. That's part of the reason Dunker like Aner said this before we have the we at included have this advantage of scale that is really real like we have been figure there's lots of like special sauces at this company one of them is we know how to license people. We know how to do it

efficiently. We know exactly how many licenses you need when you come on this door and we get them for you. And it's not you're very good at a very at a necessary but to totally useless. Yeah. Up over time 50 state practice 247 365 and that is something we All right. All right. So we assume that the way to fix that is you have to like regulate bribe legislate figure out your way through and you've done and you leave that you've done that. We're not going to change that. I can't stop my AI box in in in the corner

over there and do all 50 states immediately from Tokyo or wherever. So, let's talk about let's talk about the the the second then how do you how do you convince to people that primary care can be done without being touched? Well, I think most people if I'm being super honest, most people believe it once they do it. Um, and there are advantages and disadvantages of both. So, what is the advantage of the virtual over the bricks and mortar? frequency, quickly act getting in, not having to

wait 60 days, and um you get to see things in people's homes that you don't get to see when they come in your office if you're a doctor. So, you can actually say, "Hey, open your medicine cabinet. Show me your pills. Hey, where's that scale again that you tell me you're standing on every day?" So, there's a whole bunch of stuff because we're often like if you're like gold standards in person, then everything else is not that. But actually you could argue

there's a bunch of stuff we can do virtually that you can't do bricks and mortar. So how do we think of those tools in primary care? The second is one monitoring is getting a lot better now. So like you can listen to somebody's heart virtually. You can listen to somebody's lungs virtually. You can look in their ears. Um I know many parents have bought the little attachment for their phones where they can just send a picture in of that that the tempanis membrane so they can be like yep ear

infection. No ear infection. Done. So technology in the home has moved quite a bit forward in the last five years. So there's a bunch of stuff you don't actually need to lay hands on on the patient. That being said, there still certain things that we need to do in person. Classic example, a wellwoman exam. There are parts of that exam that have to be done in person. Um and so for those we do refer to high quality in-person providers. Those are usually things that don't have to be done very

frequently. That's at most a once a year usually. Most of the time it's once every three years type thing. So we can get that done for you. So I think the issue is we want both as members. We want to be able to access virtually and in person when that's needed and where does the relationship live? It's easier for the relationship to live virtually actually because of the frequency of visits, the ease of access. And then you kind of the inperson could become more like a commodity. You get it done when

you need to get it done. I do think it's going to take time for people to really um believe that mom. Um but and most of right now it's working when a friend tells you it's worked for them or you do it yourself. But Encore I mean I you know what's interesting is if you ask doctors probably even a doctor in your family they're providing nonoffice care visits all the time. most of our lives is probably or a lot of our lives is actually caring for our family and friends through asynchronous or virtual

visits. That's kind of off the grid. Just send them a bill. They'll stop they'll stop bothering you. We still want to be loved by our family. Yeah. Overrated. Although I would argue my member satisfaction is great when I do that. I feel confident that I'm able to because we actually if we were to deconstruct a primary care visit or any visit it's trust so relationships data and decisions and we've been focused on getting the data part in person with through wearables actually and what's the value of some of

that data compared to other parts you have an opportunity to change and then decisions which require followup and close connection to trust So actually if we were to deconstruct what a primary care visit is it would you could easily do it in a different way and I would actually push the boundary across it's not brick and mortar versus virtual it is can we reimagine the care experience to be longitudinal and say what part should be async what part should be in person what part should be virtual where should

technology take the lead and where should we take the humans take the lead and a perfect example example when we talked about AI is um when you p when you're prescribed a new medicine generally adherence if there's an issue drops after the first week I don't like the taste I have the side effect how often do you get a call from your doctor a week after you started taking the medication that how is it going versus you could AI you could have an AI assistant enable one week after every

new medication hey how's it going any issues and then quickly change and quickly have adherence so it's really not the paradigm between brick and mortar virtual It's traditional healthare and a new way forward of redefining what care should be. Yeah, I can recommend about 15 companies who think they can make that call for you would happily go work for included health on that basis. You know, a ton of interest and I think it it is generally you know correct that we can do do a lot more. I am a little con I'm not say uh

I'm I wasn't you know disappoint disappointed is probably the right word actually disappointed there was the uptake of some of these remote tools. I mean the folks of Tito Carare have had this thing that you can pass around and stick in your nose and your ears and whatever and put on your chest. There was a couple of there was a company called Med Wand which good god they won the health 2.0 launch. So that must have been 2015 2016 and they end got the thing to market. I'm actually very

surprised there isn't more like a consumer good of a thing, you know. I know there's the attachment to the phone you can stick in your ear that got bought by J&J. I can't it was originally called, but it was a another one of those early rock health companies, you know, and there's a bunch of stuff that you could do that. I'm a little surprised about how little there is of that. Although I know people are using the Apple Watch now, and there's this thing about Whoop and blood pressure and

the rest of it, but but I mean I'm really, you know, RFK Junior for his trouble has been talking about wearables. I'm a little surprised at how little there is for sort of of the exam stuff that could be added on. I mean, I still have, you know, my doctor looks at my chest, makes me lift my shirt up and listens to my heart and goes, "Yes, you still have the same murmur you have five years ago." You know, I'm really surprised that we haven't really aggressively more pushed that

stuff on people. My editorial maybe may maybe maybe you guys cost I think the price as the price of those things come down, I do think they'll get more adapted. I think they they were priced high and so if you put yourself in the shoes of the purchaser I think um I hate this term but like the ROI might not have felt like it was there. Um but I'm actually surprised it's not more of a consumer good. I would think that you know yeah just like people would want this for their own would would want to do that and then it

and then it would plug into a to a video is it rather but let's let's go to the net I mean for people who are basically healthy you know and maybe you should come in and maybe you should get your maybe should get your chest listened to every so so often but I'm thinking about for people who have more long-term chronic conditions um how are you how do you philosophically and how does your medical group think about doing this sort of remote patient monitoring obviously we you know, the blood pressure stuff,

which I've been recently whining about because I can't get a correct reading. I've had different readings from my doctor, a nurse at a health fair, and two different, you know, devices I've been using. I either have very high blood pressure or my blood pressure is too low. I'm not sure, but you know, that does vary tremendously. But obviously you have that you have people with diabetes and blood sugar issues and A1C and you know and then obviously you have you know a bunch of other conditions that people

are are trying to measure including things like pain and what have you as remote patient monitoring. Um that's where I think you mentioned ankle getting into sort of you know continuous there's async and there's kind of continuous monitoring. How do you think about what's the sort of included health philosophy about chronically ill patients with those conditions with those right kind of tools? What what are you doing about that? And how do you think it's sort of helping that demand side as it were for for

care? I would I love to share kind where we are and where we're going. Also is right now we're able to have take blood pressure and diabetes for example or a couple chronic illnesses. You actually have ways of monitoring that outside of the virtual visit. So that could be your blood pressure cuff and then you're doing you're taking your blood pressure. you're actually uh putting that in the app and letting your doctor know. Your doctor says this is your care plan. I need you to actually do this. And then

you're doing those tasks and then having those kind of communications back and forth or a visit. Similarly, you're getting your labs drawn and then uh that information is coming back to the doc and or to the care team and you're working together. So that is essentially taking what is a hard process currently in person. I have to go to them or I have to like figure out a schedule. It's painful and really taking the friction out of what the current process is. But I think what excites us is let's take

away the current process like what's the future process as well. So there's two things. One is what we're doing already which is how often for example have you gone to a different healthcare like situation and you got your blood pressure taken or you actually got labs and then you went back to primary care and you're repeating a test. And there's a lot of waste and like trouble with that. So some of it is just pure our investment in technology and upgrading to uh like a consumer grade uh

electronic health record that has interoperability. So we're able to actually see other places you're getting care and use that information for your care plan currently around chronic disease. And number two is where where the future is is really around uh integrating other data that you have as a person whether that's from your Apple watch your Fitbit there's more and more uh kind of tools and how do we and really integrating that to not necessarily only your care team like so this is going to be a little future

facing forward uh you could actually train a AI tool around some parameters I'm a doctor. I would love for you to be in these parameters. And once you're out, like let me know. And then you're able to engage with uh included health in a way that is transformative that really helps you kind of keep aligned in certain metrics. And then as soon as you're a little off course or something goes, you have the power of a 50-state 247 practice behind you. Yeah. I think the um only thing I would

add is a little bit of data. So um we actually it was interesting. I do think there's this belief that if you're a young healthy person, virtual works and if you're a chronic if you have chronic disease, it doesn't. It's actually the opposite is what we see. People with chronic conditions love virtual. Why? Because often they are also seeing specialists. So if you have to go in to see your specialist, like let's say you have a cancer diagnosis, you're probably going in person to see your oncologist

every now and then, then you you don't actually want to also go in person to see your primary care doctor. And often what happens is people just stop doing the primary care things. they stop managing their diabetes, their hypertension because they're so focused on this really sort of big condition. And so having a virtual primary care doctor actually keeps them healthy on some of their chronic stuff. So what we find is patients with complexity actually really prefer doing this primary care piece of their care

virtually. The second is we have care case and disease management. So um the most complex patients need a lot more than visit-based care. Um, they often need a social worker because some of what drives some of the complexity in American illness is I don't have access to the food, the food types that I need to eat. They need behavioral health support. Um, they actually need a couple of specialists and we want to make sure they're all high quality. And so, um, using our tools and that team for

the most complex members is actually one of the the ways we drive this value. So, it's primary care for sure, but it's what else beyond just visit-based traditional primary care do people need to manage their chronic illness given the situation that they happen to find themselves in um is sort of the the push I would make. Yeah, I mean I think that there's the redefinition of primary care as you know a bunch of different stuff including navigation and monitoring but also the behavioral health aspect coming

in you know and quarterbacking that that team approach it you know it's something we talked about for a long time but again doesn't happen enough and I'm you know I I guess my uh my soap box is that you know I built this I created wrote this paper and and built this chart god five years ago now called the continuous clinic which had all the bits, you know, which had basically the the teller health doctors in the bunker at one end, but there was all the monitoring at the other end of the patient based on where

they were, right? And this is going back to when people in COVID were thinking about being in hotels and, you know, you had to monitor them for for, you know, for blood pressure and for uh pulseox and all that kind of stuff, you know, where you didn't actually get they could be in a hospital, but a lot of people were were doing it in hospitals and people were doing it outside of hospitals. And with that kind of philosophy, there are a lot of things here you can do. Now obviously you have to get people to actually monitor their

blood pressure. You have to get them to to the point where they actually are taking their their blood glucose or you know monitoring whatever it is. Um and there is that division between somebody who's basically healthy and has a problem and somebody who who who has now got a chronic disease and where do you figure that out? But it does seem to be that that that's the the future of of sort of primary care based um you know healthy living needs to be that we're monitoring people at the rate they need

to be monitored. So, if you're a healthy person with an Apple Watch, maybe you get into your 50s and get AIB and it starts getting picked up or whatever, but you know, obviously if you're if you have developed type two diabetes or whatever, we can start really focusing on in on you more and more. It seems to me that's exactly where you guys are going. So, so like like we started with, we should just take our strategy from you, Matthew, right? Don't know why I don't want to do

anything else. It it is funny. Um because you mentioned healthy living. Um that's the words I hear our members and patients talking about as opposed to as Amy mentioned this whole idea of like primary care and that's a construct we've created and then we're trying to fit into that versus what truly does a family want? They want to feel secure. They want to feel confident that they're going to get healthier and their mind, body, and wallet are going to get taken care of. And so if you start just with that

problem statement and then build towards that, you end up creating something like a continuous clinic that actually includes a lot of financial advocacy that has nothing to do with traditional brick and mortar. And then when you do that, you actually end up improving health outcomes thereby reducing utilization and thereby reducing costs. So that is really the hypothesis and thesis that I think is so different than how uh we see this problem being solved because it's starting from different

points. You're either starting from the cost end or even you're starting from the quality part of specialty taring versus it's actually about the family and the member. So so I so I think that's that's dead right. Um I I do want to ask you we sit here we say this it's all sounds great. Um you guys have got I think Amy I want to say 15 million members now something like that. How many? Yeah. And sort of if you think of our we have like two categories of people. There are people who um have access to

our virtual services. That's actually on the range of like 50 million people. But if you think of the people who have access to our all-included care or navigation plus uh virtual care delivery, that is on the order of 50 million people. That's a decent number, but there are um 340 million Americans. Uh some of whom are about to get less care and less access to care than they had before given what's just happened to to Medicaid. Um and you know there are you have a number of competitors but even if

you add up all the people are into the Kaisers of the world and you know other players like doing sort of integrated primary care across the board it's still a it's still a minority of Americans. The thing we've talked about sounds great um but it's it's t it's you know it's taken a while as we've said um I kind of always kid that whenever someone comes up with a great new way of doing primary care I said yeah you know Sydney Garfield was doing this in 1936 in the

in the desert you know wherever he wherever he was before he started Kaiser and you know nearly 80 years later we haven't really got there yet. So, so what's your sense for the the pace at which we might get to this kind of near-term future we've been talking about? Oh, I always think it'll be faster than it is, right? But there's that saying, you always do less than you think you will in one year and then you always do more than you think you will in 5 to 10 years. And if I reflect on my seven

years uh included, that's sort of how I feel like I um do I always want to grow faster? Do I want to be able to give this service to more people than we are today? 100% absolutely all the time. Um, everyone in my family asks me when do I get included health? So like we this is like the thing. Um, so I wish it was faster. I wish it was like immediate. Um, but given that that's not how healthcare works, right? The biggest problem in healthcare is not a lack of ideas. It's a lack of scaling

those ideas. uh we've been lucky and uh I think good enough at what we do to grow consistently year over year over year. So I think we were just sort of talking about this this whole thing started you know just in 2011. So but in some ways we're old and we've been around for a while but I have a 17-year-old at home. So I'll tell you we are also still a baby. Um, and so, you know, we've for just being a 14-year-old company, we are now serving 15 million Americans. That's a million Americans a year. And

again, we want to hit 350. I get you. But that that has that's actually pretty significant growth. And my hope is, and we've always said this, our mission is to raise the standard of healthcare for everyone. And we've always said we will never be able to do that on our own. We want people to copy what we are doing because ultimately imitation is the best form of flattery. So if every health plan in the world starts doing what we're doing for people in America, that's great. Um that's what we've our

our hope is to show the world this model works. You can get better outcomes at lower costs and we're going to keep doing it. We're going to do it for more people every year, but we encourage others to do it also. And there's some policy things like what's in the BBB. There's lots there, but this idea that employers now have flexibility around allowing their members to uh access teleaalth at low or no cost without putting their HSAs at risk and high deductible health plans. Those are

moves to increase access to make it easier for people to get the kind of services that we offer and that hopefully others offer as well. So, so let's let's um end anchor with with you on a couple of sort of the the the trickier parts. So, we can sit here and talk about motherhood apple pie and and fixing primary care and and you know, I think we're we're all in huge agreement about that. We're all going the hell does this take forever? Why don't health plans really do it? You know, I have a I'm a

member of a of a famous California health plan beginning with blue with some kind of weapon or defensive weapon involved in it. And uh you know I'm always going what why are these you know and I know you guys work with them and some of your some of your clients what why I'm always saying why why are they not insisting on you know knowing more about the stuff I'm doing and why don't they seem to know you know that I've been to a primary care visit here and they're off me another one there and you

know there's all these complexities within the payer level payer level people move between plans all the time it's all it's all chaos restit but you know you can see your way through to getting a primary care system you know hopefully and if you add more AI AI and more tools to support it, which I think is coming. I've just been playing around with this primary care mental health uh sorry, this mental health AI thing called Ash, which just got released yesterday. And you know, I've been

inventing all kinds of psychosis to see how it's doing, and it's it's doing pretty well, you know. So, I I think there's a huge opportunity there for, you know, AI monitoring, AI and and, you know, AI supported um primary care with with clinicians. But the bit we spend real money on, as we know, as a specialy care, right? We spend money on expensive drugs, we spend money on expensive surgeries, we spend money on cancer basically. Um what's your philosophy and what are you guys

actually doing about you know those costs? Um I spent a lot of time thinking about that and I think there is this idea that we could cut such a large amount of these high costs by doing kind of these marginal things. So I think for the first step is acknowledging certain people need higher cost services and have complex needs like cancer care for example or um comp those with multiple complex and rare conditions and really acknowledging some of that is they're getting evidence-based care that is the

most cost effective care that exists and that is actually transformational. gene therapy is actually transformational and it is incredibly expensive and that is a problem we need to figure out at large. So there is that avenue but oh my goodness there is so much opportunity in ensuring that you can have the right type of care right level and high quality care that's cost effective and the way real like centering again on the member so what's actually easier for the member and this is where in our

partnership um and work with Kalpers and Blue Shield California we're actually operationalizing these ideas Matthew you know some of these ideas are old as apple pie sight of care steerage um moving to bioimilars um all of these things we've said how do you actually do it how do you actually engage a member and share and show why it's easier and better for them as well as for the health plan. So that's really kind of where we are like focusing our energy is how do you make the right decision the

easy decision and it's not by creating more friction for the wrong decision which is traditionally the way it's actually making the right decision much more frictionless through technology through better experience and through wraparound care. Yeah I'll add a couple of little things. Um, one is to your push on why is primary care effective? It's actually effective because you actually usually avoid specialty care if you do it well. Um, and so like there's small things that you can do. So, uh, we do this

today. If you're looking for a specialist, we'll often ask you, have you already seen your primary care doctor for this? So, how do we give those nudges at the right time? So, don't go straight to the orthopedic surgeon. uh check talk talk talk about your need to your primary care doctor first and then help let them help you decide if you really need to go to a surgeon who will most likely operate, right? That's what that's usually um a course that might be taken there. Um so

that's one sort of big lever to decrease specialty use over the time. And then you know I'll just go back to where we started on quality really matters. highquality specialists are less likely to do inappropriate procedures and to use the high cost inappropriate drugs. Um and so we still at our core believe that by driving to quality you will decrease long-term costs. Um and so to point some you just need specialty hair. Let's just call it. Many people need specialty care. But can we make sure

that when you need specialty care, you're getting the expert opinion to make sure that you're getting the care you actually need. And when you see that specialist, you're seeing the highquality specialist who's not going to do an inappropriate surgery, who's not going to get an MRI if you don't need an MRI, who's not going to prescribe this med just because it's expensive, but actually use the med that's more likely to work for you. So, uh, that's still our core of how we

affect specialty cost. Um and turns out now we have good evidence that it actually works. So that has been built up over these last few years. So on that point, two two two quick related notes. Um one is there's a lot of fuss at the moment about people being denied care by AI and plans and whatever. And there's, you know, you you're seeing uh can can there's the great cancer uh the great Tik Tok meme of the uh the the cancer plastic surgeon specialist doing the doing doing her thing and having to talk to the United

well the O right I think uh there's one of the she's come out of the O whatever there's Elizabeth Potter and there's a propaganda war which is clearly being lost by the health on that at the moment. So, how do you avoid getting what you just said, which all sounds very sensible, being sort of bundled in with, well, these people are just denying us care because we want this and want that. Um, I I really, and this is might sound simple, but we're solving for a different problem. So,

there's actually what's going on in the industry is AI versus AI. large hospital systems, their goal or a goal is to rev up rev cycle management. So they're actually deploying AI to do that or their goal is productivity. They're revving up AI to solve that problem and then on the plan side it's actually like a better audit function of those codings. So it's AI versus AI and I don't see hear a patient or family anywhere in that conversation. So it really goes to what we're actually

trying to solve for easier, simpler healthcare experience for the member. So when we think about what our memberf facing AI will do, for example, hey, how's that prescription? It's like how how are those new meds doing? It's just a such a different framework of building this tool um that supports this overly vision. Yeah. And I would just add um to me it comes down to trust. Yeah. So um you know we've always I think Owen's vision at the beginning part of why I love this place is um everybody

everybody kind of wants a doctor in their family. A doctor that they love and they trust and that's going to do right by them. Um that's why my family texts me whether or not I want them to. It's probably why family does the same thing. Um, and they feel like I've got their best interest at heart. And if I were to say, "Actually, you can do this in your home and you don't have to drive or you can, you know, or if you want you go in person, but it's going to be kind of a hassle. It's not that much better."

They're going to listen to me. Um, now that trust has to be um, honored. And so, it is not something you take lightly as a physician or a clinician, as a caretaker for another human being. You got to really you it's a privilege to have that trust. But part of why we're so excited about this third way like we're not the health plan. We're not the provider. We're trying to be both things to you as a person is because if you trust us and it will take a lot for us to earn that trust. Uh maybe we're going

to have to solve a bunch of your problems. Maybe we're going to have to help you battle a bill that you don't think you need to pay and you don't need to pay. But if you trust us and if we should be trusted um then maybe it won't come across as we're just trying to take across take something away from you that you need and deserve but actually that we've got your best interest in mind and like turns out this other alternative path is now that's a big if and to maybe I'm living too much in La La Land. Um I

you know but that's the optimism that's what we all want. Um, and I think we can do it. And I think it's probably going to be a third party like us that we're not coming in with a lot of baggage like we're trying to do what's right. Yeah. And uh that's the real I mean I mean ultimate question is is can you can anybody sort of uh have this brand of being a trusted person is the ally of the consumer and doing in the right thing because people don't understand how any of this stuff works as we said

earlier on and there's clearly not that you know 50 years after the Dartmouth stuff there's the Dartmouth research there's still a lack of understanding about the variation and for that the lack of safety you brought that up briefly anchor in American healthcare and I think the or the more that you know you could have somebody to trust you guide you around the system the better. Um Mike McGee who comes on my my uh podcast occasionally and writes on the blog a lot says that the role of

doctors is to assuage the fear and worry of their patients and you got to have that part and maybe that requires a hands-on maybe doesn't maybe it can be done virtually maybe it can done as a as a thing of tr as a as a notion of trust but that's the part to me which is is part of it right but you've got to help people feel their someone's take you know got their got their is on their side through the system but then also you have to you know you have the the harder data part of managing what's

going on at the back end of the system which you know as we said is still super complex and a lot of it's you know inefficient ineffective and in some cases harmful so we have to have to work on that all right uh last last thing for both of you so okay let's let's you know it's always we want it to be done in a year it's always going to take 10 years but but in in 10 years or five to 10 years what what do you think the um include you know the the included health experience will mean to people who are

who are part of it? What what what do you think uh included health will be doing that is maybe not massively different to what you're doing today, but what kind types of things do you think you'll be doing? And do you think you'll be the sort of the the understood to be the the medical group or the the care provider for the people, you know, the primary care provider for people you're you're working with? Uh yes to the second question. Um, I would say 10 years is an interesting time frame.

So, first of all, I do hope more types of populations have access to our services. So, I think we'll continue to be offering sort of this type of care for working Americans and families. I hope more people can get it um through, you know, through their employer or through whoever purchases their health care for them. Um perhaps we will you know uh also be able to offer these services to patients who get their health plan through the government in various ways. Um I think uh if we do what we say we're

going to do and we do it well, you're going to have a team and that team will be both technology and humans that you actually trust to be by your side in managing this thing you call your healthy life. Um, and it will be both through visits and I think we'll be doing more types of visits. So, we already do primary care, behavioral health, urgent care 247, all 50 states. There's probably a whole bunch of specialty care we should be able to do for you virtually as well. Like, you kind of don't need to go into the office

for a lot of stuff that people do today. We will be able to more seamlessly than we do today guide you to inerson care when you need to. So, when you end up going to that inerson care, which we send you today, uh, I don't want you to have to repeat your story. I want it to feel integrated in a way that I think we have opportunity uh towards. So you need that wellwoman exam. You show up and maybe you won't need that because there's some good interesting stuff being tested now. But um if you do, you

go in and the person who's doing that knows you, knows your past results, you know, is really confirming things for you. It feels like an included health visit versus I'm being handed off between different provider groups, in person, virtual. when something bad happens to you or your family in the health care realm, you know you got somebody by your side. So the new stuff that pops up, you can easily call us. Um, and people don't get bankrupt because we're helping them manage the

cost side of this equation, too. So, it's not really that different from what we do today, but I want to do it all better. I want to do it all more seamlessly, and I want to do it across more things that all included perspective um for more people. I don't know. Encore. Is there something I missed? I It's interesting you say 10 years. I would love like if by doing all that when people hear about included health, they'll think this seamless member or like healthc care done right and easy and I'm going to be taken care

of. Like how I think about healthcare, how we think about healthcare now is pretty horrible. How I think about a luxury hotel experience or going to Disney World is very much or even Costco is very much different. I mean Disney World is horrible. That's us by the book. Yeah. But it's it's actually compared actually included health is that experience for me and it doesn't mean we're doing it. We've created a model that they're doing the included health model over there. So

that's why I'm going to go there. That's great. All right. Fantastic. Well, I'm interviewing with Ankor Shaw. He's the VP of clinical excellence and Amy Perrick who's the chief health offic chief health officer at included health. We talk about uh their model. We talked about a bunch of stuff but we there's a lot of stuff we didn't talk about. We didn't talk about much health span longevity. We didn't mention GP1s. All kinds of good stuff. So hopefully you

two will come back on and we talk about that next time. Yes. Talk to you soon. Thank you. Thanks to a few