Title: Anmol Madan, RadiantGraph
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4CLp-Q09sIE
Language: en
Duration: 30:28
Upload Date: Jul 3, 2025

Transcription:

[Music] All right, Matthew. I'm here at AHIP. I'm here with uh Aml Madan. He is the CEO of a company called Radiant Graph. We haven't been there booth. Um Am's got a bit of a history in the business. She was the original one of the original founders of Ginger, which has gone through a bunch of iterations. But when it started, those of you with long memories may remember, was doing kind of uh assessment of people's mental state by using by how they were using the phone, that kind of stuff, some cool stuff. Now

it's a boring uh now it's just a boring now it's just another boring mental health product company. But back in it was fun. Then he went and was hanging out at Lavongo and Teldoc uh and now Radiant Graph. So am radiant graph uh AI company doing what precisely? So um it's a great question Matthew. I had some great experiences ginger mental health that I founded around for eight years. Uh Levonger intended was the chief data AI officer uh after they went public. Um you know big problem I see in healthcare

that led me to start rating crop is there's a thousand incredible clinical innovations health models virtual care models. No one's using this stuff. Okay. Okay. And the average utilization of these benefits inside a typical payer is 5% of the eligible population. And it's not for lack of spend, right? And so payers spend about 2.5% of all healthcare premiums, $150 billion just trying to get people to engage as part of their admin budget. They actually spend. Um it's not for lack of desire on

behalf of the consumer. Many of, you know, many of us actually know people in our lives where they should have been on preventative mental health benefits or msk or should have had primary care support early on to protect and support chronic condition management. It's really just a hard problem to solve in healthcare. And as I, you know, had some of the those those experiences, I kind of walked out and I was like, what do I do next? And it felt like if we could solve this problem in healthcare that

was a stepping stone to actually seeing the impact of clinical of of these social health solutions on clinical care and ultimately the cost of care because sadly for all the innovation we've seen in that space and I've been fortunate to be be part of some of it with the companies that I was part of you know whether you like pick your favorite diabetes solution or mental health solution right there's 40 million people with diabetes in the US and maybe a million and a half or any solution

manage their solar and so if these solutions which have proven ROI they work um are really delivering that impact why aren't we seeing that in the long-term kind of cost here and so I think there's a whole bunch of structural issues it felt like this is a company that was missing and every job I would have to rebuild this platform my last job you know my group was uh investing about $20 million a year doing all all the data and all those pieces and getting it to work driving consumer engagement of our

programs and when it worked it had a massive impact right it drove adoption of the program it was not just economically great for us as a company but it also was the right thing to do for consumers so I think for me it was like why is this a 2-year three-year build and why doesn't just this just just work out of the box and can I just get a solution that does what we had to kind of re-engineer so that's the thesis behind rating craft the entire technical team at rating craft about 40% of the

companies is is PhDs machine learning and AI has been with me the last two in some cases last three jobs. Um and so we've architected these systems and so for us when we came together it was hey let's kind of build this in a way that we wish we had access to. Um this is platform I wish I had in my last couple of jobs and would allow us to scale and so that's that's the thesis behind the company. All right. So basically I I'll say what I think it is and then you what you're doing and then you tell me the

right thing. You're so you're arriving at a health plan or wherever you're taking all their various data feeds messy and incomplete as they are. I just had a health plan CEO explain to me how he's creating the perfect integrated data lake blah blah blah. You're saying screw that stuff. We're just going to take all the data as it is. We're going to build a uh an AI layer on top of it. taking that data and we're going to using that create a whole bunch of functions which eventually will do a lot

of things including getting to you know advertise and getting people into these care management tools but a bunch of other stuff as well. So is that more or less correct? That's that's directionally correct. Yes. And so rating so I'll say there are three things that have to be true right the first is consumers want to be engaged and I think we have to engage them now this year this plan year not 3 years from now the second thing that's true is AI is playing a is a powerful tool in

driving personalization of the healthare experience and if you look at every other industry right if I pull up the Netflix screen for everybody that's watching this video right now it's going to look completely different for each one of us right but that's not how healthcare works and so we know how to do this outside of healthcare we need an easy to bring this to life in healthcare. And then the third thing I'd say is like you know I don't think we can live in this perpetual soup of like

you know we're going to take three more years and build this unified data platform and it's eventually it's going to work. It has to work in today's data with today's problems. So, so Lading Graph is a platform and it's a flexible platform that captures a lot of technical sophistication starting from our built-in integrations and I'm going to go into a little technical jargon now so please pause me if it's too detailed for this audience but starting from built-in integrations

with all the major cloud vendors uh so GCP Azure uh Snowflake data bricks really takes 30 minutes to integrate us to any of the major cloud vendors you have you probably have sparse messy incomplete data there's a little bit of claim names. It's a liberal pharmacy. There's maybe some, you know, four versions of Matthew in the system in there. And then our system digests that, goes to our HTE, our health data engine. We do all the common operations, normalization, identity, resolution,

fixers. It then goes to a series of powerful personalization capabilities that are for your population, for your use case. So these are AI models that are learning the patterns in your member population, not on some population from some other plan from the 1990s. So they're not clinical rules. So kind of true AI models and then it finally goes to rating graphs agentic layer and voice AI being a big part of it but also we help you optimize your direct mail your email campaigns and legacy marketing

that's happening which is where a lot of people might be discovering things you know healthcare spends a lot of money on phone calls on direct mail and sending letters and so you kind of have to solve for all of that so that's what the platform does um you know healthcare has unique challenges which is why our belief is that this industry needs its own platform form. Um, and so we're really kind of focused on on that and we're designed, we only serve healthcare, you know, software type

compliant, high trust compliant. From the other side of the house, uh, the platform allows configuration for different solutions. And so as a as a payer, for example, you might be focused on driving the adoption of um, benefits, preventative benefits in the commercial population, maybe connecting deeper with your Medicare population. So they find the light benefits, they stay with the plan, they get the best, you know, best kind of care as well as overall uh their cost uh economic outcomes uh in the

individual or fully insured population. You're trying to build a relationship for people who are coming in. Maybe they've got young families who try to figure stuff out. It's helping them. So these are all, you know, plethora of use cases without gradient craft. You know, you have very large teams, operational teams, sometimes technical teams working with a bunch of non-healthcare solutions trying to patchwork them together. It costs a lot of money, a lot of time. There's a lot of custom build with data

graphic sort of works out of the box and goes live. And so there's a platform and then there's the solutions and they kind of work with you to configure it for your use case. You can see the impact now. So are all the solutions something to do with touching a member because there's a bunch of other stuff presumably could be done with this in terms of I don't know prior authorization and a bunch of you know provider activity stuff that help fans have to do. Do you do that as well cuz

you are doing a lot of stuff you're not and so I think there are three big this is a personal thesis I have for for where AI is going. I think there are three big areas that we're going to see impact of AI in healthcare particularly on the payer and system side health system side. The first is obviously what we're already seeing which is the back office prior ops some of the clinical note takingaking you know the kind of operations on the back end. The second area which is still early but I think

will emerge more in the next three to five years is actual AI integrated in the care experience right and so should the basic clinical visits for primary care in 5 years be done with an AI doctor which is a human doctor and we're a little bit early but I think that trend is going to be here in 5 years and then the third area is the front office of healthcare which is the consumer experience a member experience of healthcare our belief is to have an impact you have to focus and so we've chosen one problem one area which by

itself is still very broad because consumer engagement in healthcare is still very very broad. Right? I gave you I gave you some some breath of examples there. So just doing that right feels like a 10ear build of a company. Um and so we're kind of focused in that area. Um our thesis is that we as consumers are coming in with very high expectations in this day and age and I think healthcare is not going to be able to cater to that without the right platforms and place to drive that forward. So that's that's a place where

we're coming from. Um it doesn't mean the other sectors aren't important. I think there's some great companies, there's some great investments, there's a lot of momentum there. Um, it's just that we've chosen that front office, the member experience to play in because we think just getting that in right is going to have unlock a lot of value in our society. So, I'll ask in a few minutes whether you're doing too much or not enough. But for now, why don't you

dig in and quickly show us some examples of uh what you have what you have going. Yeah. And so, I'll show you a couple of things here. Over your shoulder and uh look at the screen there. Yeah, this is great. So, I'll show you a couple of things. So this is an example of radiant graph's uh platform very specifically this is designed for the adoption of a diabetes program and so prior to coming to this point you can integrate radiant graph with your major cloud vendors so in this case you know we've chosen to

integrate with snowflake and GCP and also with Salesforce marketing cloud which is the the marketing engine the email delivery engine for this for this hyper the user of this is who and a health plan so typically our users are in the marketing product or operation ations teams and you know radiating graph is always goes through a deep review with the CIO and the technical teams but one of the things that the CIOS love about a platform like ours is while we're technically robust embedded it takes away a lot of the back and

forth that they're so so basically the uh technical folks don't have to supply this in their massive queue of stuff to do for the marketing and so instead of you know a techical person writing a query into the platform all of that happens inside the rating craft world and it sort of empowers the the users And so this is an example of the cohorts that were learned for this particular organization, right? So the system digested various kinds of structured uh unstructured healthcare data and it's

figured out their pockets of members in this in this organization. We call them smart cohorts and they're not clinical rules but they're based on your population. You could have three different diabetes companies say Levongward Alada have different people using their product inside uh inside smart. So how do how do you who's defining? So now you've got a fairly, you know, you got a bunch of stuff there defining that cohort. Who's defining that? Is that the system itself? Is that

uh, you know, is that the medical director sitting around saying, I only care about people with A1C's? Yeah. So with smart cohorts, the initial definition is done by our systems. And so the system is saying, okay, these are the populations of interest that we're discovering in your population. However, like most things, we do give our users a way to kind of say, okay, these smart cohorts, let's take these off. They're less interesting. And so it allows, you know, you could generate a vast variety

of, you could have like dozens of dozens of populations of interest and then that becomes a starting point for how you engage those populations. And the next step that I'll show you, um, you can go in and say, great, I want to go write campaigns that that talk to these members and engage them, right? So let's just say you're talking about, hey, I've got to go off and get people in in their annual checkup for, you know, diabetes. And then you can choose the smart cohorts that are the most relevant for

that based on what you saw before. Um you can choose the campaign. So you can say I want to send an email to my Salesforce marketing cloud integration. I want to also send direct mail to my direct mail vendor and I also want to voice AI. And then you can going to go in our system personalizes your templates and emails for each subgroup. Um it lets you export that into your into your systems. You can also go deeper and create your own content. So you can pick the pick the use cases and you know pick the program and then the

system will write uh the content for you if needed. And so a lot of the investment in legacy creative teams where you'd have people kind of write content now goes here. You can kind of add your brand guidelines, you can add your legal guidelines, you can kind of upload a lot of that information. And then uh and the last piece I'll show you here and we go into more detail is is you can also then tie this back to voice AI campaigns that we're running. So in this case, you know, you can look at the

the calls that are happening for this particular organization. What happened? I'll play some of the calls for you. Um, a huge part of rating graph's value and where we where we differ from a lot of the I'll say commodity or or sort of broad voice vendors is we've thought through the integration in healthcare specific use cases. Nobody in healthcare is going to completely replace their call centers today with with just voice AI. There's always going to be a handoff. That's where the industry is

right now. So, a huge part of it is how do you take this information from an AI call and then send it over to a human call center that might be going in. until we find it. I shall operate her into the voice response that Blue Shield in California never does. Hopefully you got a Yeah. So I think those are I mean it's it's it's it's we're at an interesting point where you know many of the voice AI use cases you've got to figure out the connection between the human and the AI system and they're good

at they're good at different things and uh and I think that's where some of this sort of fits in. So this is all an example again you know rating graph is pretty broad so we can confuse. So basically one person sitting in marketing can configure this relatively quickly I assume once you've got the basic pipe. How long does it take you to sort of from from the CEO saying go or whoever says go virtually getting this available for the marketing team. uh we have so from the point contracts are

signed and we are we are a goal to actually launching AI based campaigns typically it's about 4 to 6 months and so that's the integration with the data that is understanding patterns in your population that's generating the smart cohorts that you see here and that's writing the campaigns all the way down including legal approval as needed and so it's very high I think for very efficient and I think you know the the challenge I've seen in past lives is for most of large plans just doing the data

stuff is a three-year journey. Yeah. And so I would like to live in a par universe where that is not the case where all of us fundamentally have a much better healthcare experience and every interaction feels like it was designed for us. And this is our attempt at building that back. So basically you're saying that the beauty well the the the secret source related graph is ability to take that data messy as it is and you know the data extraction normalization is a is uh is a big part of this. Yeah. It's just not just dick.

It's designing the entire system from end to end, right? And so like you shouldn't as a user, as a as a healthcare organization, you shouldn't have to worry about all these technical details. Like you're in the business of delivering care and making sure you have uh the right benefits for your members and so let's help you do the stuff you're good at and let us solve the data ingestion, the AI model configuration, the you know creating the campaigns and pushing those out. Like I think systems

should do that. And so to your point earlier, you know, typically inside a mid-size large beer, you look at all these different jobs from the data engineering all the way to the the marketing agency doing the campaigns. We're talking about 50 100 people. And I think in an AIcentric universe, you only need three people, right? That's the world I think we're marching towards. And so you can use those resources more effectively. You can do do more. You can test more ideas. And you can do that

with a much much much smaller footprint. And let's have let's use machines in the most powerful way to drive that out. That's what we're building towards. All right. Um I want to take a minute and just show you some voice AI capabilities here as well. Um and so these are, you know, I'll just play some recordings. I'm not sure if you would hear them, but there's a number of voice AI use cases in healthcare. Um you know, in this case, we've listed out examples of like

computing information when you're onboarding for Medicare, for example, or driving the adoption of preventative care benefits or boosting the adoption of health health utilization. There are three major differences between radians voice AI stack and what you might see from a lot of the horizontal players that are coming through voice. Number one, um we are we only do healthcare and we only do consumer engagement uh use cases in healthcare. So we're not doing you know deep clinical stuff. We're not

doing care management. We're just doing consumer engagement in healthcare. We think getting that right is really hard. doing that right for different regions, different languages over time, different accents, you know, different needs like in taking taking up and down information integrating with human workflows is really hard. So that's that's one big difference. The second big difference, it's pre-integrated into our platform. And I've heard this now from multiple CIOS inside large plans uh both in

Medicare and commercial where they've said hey look I can I can see the voice AI thing but I still don't know how to integrate this with my you know core data system and we need to build this and really graph you don't have to do that right and then the third piece is it's important to have the right validation for anything in healthcare right so you have to kind of test all the the scenarios of things that can go wrong for any agent uh use case that we support we've done hundreds of hours of

testing with US-based healthare professionals. We now have fairly sophisticated infrastructure where voice AI agents automatically test every small release and improvement and call the agents and do that testing. Um, and so these are all examples of of things that we support today. I think that's really important because if we're going to bring voice AI into healthcare, it can't just be another prototype. It has to be something that's really well thought through and designed for real healthcare

use cases. So I can try playing the auto pick it up. Hello, this is an AI virtual agent from member services at Local Advantage Plan. We're reaching out to welcome you to your new health plan. Are you interested in learning more about how the plan works and what benefits are included? Sure. I've been meaning to call. Great. I appreciate your interest. Before we dive into the details, I need to verify your identity to ensure your privacy. Can you please confirm your first and last name? Yes, my name is

Anna Taylor. Thank you, Anna Taylor. I appreciate that. Now, the purpose of my call today is to confirm that you are set up to use your new plan and to go over the benefits available to you. This will take about 10 to 15 minutes. We will discuss your membership card, creating a web account, and your available benefits such as silver sneakers, transportation benefits, and over-the-counter debit card benefits. Does that sound good to you? Yes, I'd like that. I'd like to learn more. Perfect. First, let's confirm if you

have received your membership card yet. Have you received it in the mail? Yes, I just received my card uh last week. That's great to hear, Anna. Now, have you created a web account yet? If not, I can help guide you through the process. Whoops. I don't think I created that web account yet. No problem at all. Creating a web account is a simple process and it will allow you to access important information about your Yeah, I guess it's a pretty good idea. The is all of this should just work, right? and you

should be able to just plug in the right tools into your cloud infrastructure where you've got some messy data figured out. Um, by the time I imagine this gets published, uh, we'll have some more news coming out next week. We actually just won a million dollars from data bricks last week. Um, as the best kind of That's very nice of them. They have lots of money, I understand. So, good. So, so let's uh, let's let's take a step back. I want to do talk three quick things. One, sort of the scale of the company.

Uh, you started this what 20 22 am I right? Yeah, the company is just under a couple of years old and we've had a product in market with I think just about a year even less than a year. Um, you know, give me a flavor of how many people you are, how much you raised, you know, where you are on that kind of company. Um, we've raised uh just about 15, a little over 15 million. Um, at series A was 11 and then we had a seed run before that companies uh everybody product data AI is based out of San

Francisco. Uh, which is where we are in the office. Uh I'm in the office 5 days a week. It's about 15 people or so. Still very small, very much a baby startup company. Uh working with uh I'd say about six to six to eight sort of digital health type companies that have been great early partners validating our product and then working with um you know one national one large national and then some blue as well. Okay. Can you can you name the customers or not yet? All right. You don't have to. You're

looking shy and embarrassed but at some point you will. So this leads me to the the second question right which is you're doing a lot there are people doing each individual part within healthcare what you're doing the data integration part the sort of AI layer with the and many of the functions that you're taking there are individual companies right and then there are obviously very wellunded voice AI only companies in healthcare obviously you know democratic one of them you got space last week blah blah you know in

the space uh so are you doing too much and then conversely okay are you doing not enough should you be doing a bunch of other functions with all the data you you're taking out yeah I think um you know there's this sort of different ways to look at the world right our thesis and this has been my experience with some of the voice AI capabilities um unless you're training foundational models where you're going to go compete with u you know like a meta or an open AI and go spend a billion dollars in

training on custom data I think it's really hard to make the case for spending you know raising more money to spend it on GPUs I think is a hard case to make right and I think we've all seen this in healthcare where companies and again I think there's some great companies there I'm a huge fan of some of the folks individually I know them personally so it's not about the people but I think as a as a company building philosophy I'm in the camp of like capital efficiency is important just because it's an AI

hype cycle just because people are able to buy chips at high prices at least in healthcare it doesn't change the the buying motion it doesn't change the conservative nature of our industry indry especially when you're selling to payers and even systems for that matter and so I think companies need to be prudent with capital and unless you have a real need to kind of go off and you know spend $510 million a month on training with GPUs and there are some use cases where that is true um you know

it's hard to make that case for what we're doing right limitation is not uh the end point so I think I'm I'm a fan of like you know companies should be built in step functions and you know as you build out the proof points as you you know we when you did our a uh Q4 of last year we had people like much bigger checks or higher prices. That's probably the only founder that you'll ever, you know, talk to who's like, "Actually, no, let's do it here and we're going to

raise so much and if you need to, you can raise more because, you know, healthcare just takes time and and the worst thing you can have is the burden of a very high valuation that we can't justify because it was cool in the AI era, but 10 months, 24 months from now when the hype cycle dies down and people are looking at what has worked, you're going to have to justify those numbers, right?" So, I think that's a personal philosophy is having been in companies and having uh being also been an

investor. I'm a person investor in about 20 25 companies in sector healthcare and AI as an angel and I kind of have seen the pattern across different parts as well. So I think that's a that's a that's a building choice in in terms of why putting it all together in one platform. My thesis here is there's a number of point solutions that do little bit of each and then the place where healthcare gets stuck is trying to cobble them together into one into one system. That's where you're seeing the 2

three years of build time or the huge spend on internal engineers or consulting firms to try to make it work. And I think if you're going to be a player, this is my personal thesis. This is the thesis behind the company. If you are going to be a player in that, then I think it just has to work. I think healthcare buyers are jaded. I think they're tired of being sold. I think they're tired of hearing that, you know, it's going to happen. I think people just want to see the whole thing

working. And then like they want, you know, simplicity matters in healthcare. These are not technology companies like these are businesses that are focused on care delivery or focused on member you know billing on uh member benefits and like they shouldn't have to go run an engineering team as big as a Google or Facebook just to do their job that's not the business they're in and frankly I'd say the healthcare margins don't justify that either right these are you know in many cases depending on whether it's a

plan or system we're talking about 10 15 20% margins that includes admin fees in there and so I think there's so to me this should just work. It needs to be a platform that works out of the box which means that there's no burden on rating graph to be flexible to show to clients to make it easy to configure and that's where we end up working pretty closely with partners to make sure we get the most results out of our platform um in the shortest amount of time possible. All right. And the converse question of

that is the advances we're seeing on a sort of weekly basis from the big LMs right who are investing gazillions of dollars mostly in in Nvidia as far I can tell but you know uh some of the things they're doing are remarkable and I'm wonder you know do we end up needing a bunch of specialist healthcare only AI companies like you or does it work that you know GPT will do all for us and this is where nuance matters right uh Matthew so we actually for the LM you mean nuance as the phrase It's not as the

company not as the company. Yes. Yes. Yes. Details matter. And uh so we we don't train our own at right. And so we we played a lot with fine tuning. Um we do obviously build on top of both open AI and Enthropic. We support both in the back end. Uh we've done some work with Lama on our space as well. So I think you know look we're flexible and if tomorrow there's a better generation of LLM we're going to build on top of that and integrate that with all the healthcare specific guardrails and

protections that are needed in our existence. So I think that's part of our the advantage that's what allows us to be capital efficient when it comes to uh voice AI and even content generation which is a LLM dependent capability. I think at this point in time my personal thesis is unless unless you're doing something really unique about clinical diagnosis or treatment decisions or very specific healthcare you know kind of use cases that require that level of clinical expertise. I think it's hard to

make a case for training your own models versus just using OpenAI or Anthropic or your favorite of the big four um for operational or engagement use cases in healthcare. who still need the protections in the guard drills, but I don't think you should be spending a bit of money. But do you think that they themselves will just end up being the solution for much of this stuff or do you think, you know, obviously you bet the fact that there's a role for coming out ready graph, but tell me why, you

know, I won't just be able to switch on open, you know, GB team do it for me. Yeah, I think there's um it's pretty clear looking at the direction of some of those companies. Again, world's evolving a year from now, who knows what it looks like, right? But I think a couple of trends are pretty clear. I think you know when you become uh a large platform you kind of have to choose between being a platform versus running the applications on the platform. And so if iOS starts you know

I use Apple as a as an example of platform that's very mature. If iOS starts creating the most successful apps on their phone as part of the Apple store like that's going to be problematic scale a lot of people building on top of these platforms. I think when I look at OpenAI or you know some of the larger LLM companies at least in what we've heard them say at events and things is they want people to build incredible use cases and verticals and solutions on top of their platform right so I think that's kind of part one

I think part two when it comes to healthcare our learning is you know it's pretty easy to spin up a prototype it's really hard to get the last 1% and the last you know.1% and actually make sure it's safe in a variety of situations um you know not just things like hallucinations and also a lot of just like people you know taking the conversations in a different way asking about things that are not relevant getting all of that right is actually quite hard um and so that takes a lot of

time effort trying to be testing and I don't think at least in the current climate I don't think the tech companies want to take that on because it's a different level of liability right um it's the same way like Google search is not going to diagnose you on the web but then give you some relevant information and on the on the other side of it I don't think payers or systems want to take that on either because you know the liability risk of them being wrong and somebody having an adverse situation is

also very high. So I think it creates an opportunity in today's market based on what we're hearing from both sides to be the platform that kind of enables that and being that's a good robust defense sites do talk to doctors and therapists all the time like I was saying no no I think uh I think JP JP is replacing you already but you're right there's a b there's a bunch of stuff between here and there. I mean I and it just takes it's going to take uh one adverse event just to restart the conversation and I

think ultimately comes down and this is I actually just had a piece come out yesterday about regulation in healthcare and where yeah regulation should go and I think I think we need we need to have just as the FDA has had standards for radiology imaging machine learning applications I think there's probably going to be a similar evolution of how we think of standards LLM and I think people are going to have to invest in the validation process and publish that work over time for them to be able to

play voice AI use cases in our case which is a stance that we have. So the the the research and the investment that is part of fantastic. All right. Well that's that's great and great to to delve into your now quite extensive and lengthy knowledge of of machine learning AI all that kind of good stuff in healthcare you've been doing for far too long by now. So congrats on uh what you done so well radiant graph am mani is the CEO of radiant graph and a robust defense of why we need uh specialist

companies like this to to to fix all the problems we have in at least memory engagement in healthcare. Thank you your time. Thank you very much.