Title: Ariel Katz, H1
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3UH6hCr_pTk
Language: en
Duration: 00:25:27
Upload Date: Jun 23, 2025

Transcription:

[Music] Hi, it's Matthew H. Another JCB spotlight. I'm here with Ariel Catz. Ariel is the CEO and founder of H1, which is a company I've not tracked down, but has been out in the market scooping up a couple of companies who if you're very careful careful readers and viewers of TCB, you know that uh H1 acquired Ribbon Health this year and just acquired Vader Health. uh both in their interviews about um in the world of in in the world of physician data I guess what I got going to call it

welcome um you uh let's not talk about those acquisitions quite yet but let's get to the basics of where did H1 start you're going to show us a bit about that but uh first off uh you guys been around about 2000 you were no sorry you're a YC company 2000 been around a little bit longer than that um but what is the what is the underlying problem that you're solving and what is the data you brought together to do that? Yeah, so we we started thanks for having me by the way. We started in 2018

um 20 um and then we went to YC in winter of 2020 co days. We were in the co batch where co hit right in the middle. Uh when we started the business in uh 2018, we set out for our mission to be connect the world to the right doctor. And to do that, we decided to profile every doctor, every healthare professional in the world and tell everybody everything you want to know about them. So for a given doctor, we have like where do they work, what patients they see, what are they good at, which pharma companies they work

with, everything. What do they tweet two seconds ago, what is their scientific literature, everything you can imagine about these doctors. We have more than mostly anyone else has in the world. Um, and it's been working pretty well. Right now we have about 11 million healthare professionals in our platform. Basically every doctor besides for ones in Russia, Iran um uh China and some countries in in Latam in the Middle East. So everyone you can imagine we have inside of H1 today. All right. So uh we'll get into

the the purpose and you're going to show us the purpose of what it's used for in a minute. But what is the uh what's the source of all that data? Because I mean this has been I've been you know over the years talked to people like Judy you was a car since now you know dealing with when dealing with you know physician data when it changes so much and physicians move and you know there's there's no really good s source of truth h how are you bringing all that data together and then how are you keeping it

current that's the business uh the real way to get it is I mean when we started we had no money it was our startup and so the best way is you go and scrape every hospital website in the world right once Once you do that, governments post some data depending on the government. The US is not that bad at it. The UK is not that bad either, but some countries are a tiny bit make it a tiny bit more difficult. So when you go to the government sources, once you do that, those public sources, you then get

into the bucket of well, there's information that people have about doctors, but it's not public. Your insurance company has great information about doctors, what patients they're seeing, are they good at treating patients. So you go and partner with those organizations. Hospitals have information about doctors. You go to work with hospitals to get that information about them. Eventually, you're going to want these doctors and hospitals to come in and add information themselves. And so, we do

all three of those areas. We get public information, we partner, we purchase, and then doctors and hospitals come into H1 and update their own information as well. Okay. And on the last part, why is it why would I do that as a doctor? Why would I care about helping H1? Uh, you care about helping yourself and help you do that. And so, if you claim your profile in H1, you get two benefits today, maybe even three. Uh, we're growing the third. The first one is we will help connect you to a clinical

trial. So if you're interested in running a clinical trial, come in and climate profile on H1. That's one and that's important. It's a revenue driver and people care about doing clinical research if they have patients that don't have other care pathways. Number two is we have a part of H1 where we connect doctors to humanitarian missions. And so if you want to go help in certain countries in Africa and Russia, we helped in Gaza, we helped in Israel, you come in and claim your

profile. The third way is there are tens of millions of patients using H1's information every single day uh to know which doctor to go see. If you want your information to be correct, you want to increase your patient flow, update your H1 information. It's the way you do it. That's so that third one is interesting. We'll dive into, you know, how it gets used by your clients in a minute. But that third one, uh I assume the patients don't know they're using H1 or maybe they do, but tell me how that works. I'm

I'm a random patient. I'm using H1 today. How? Why? I almost guarantee that you've used us that you know you used us. So we today power and it goes to the acquisitions we've been making. Yes. We today power um various digital health applications that all of people use every Sunday in America. And today we power nine out of the top 10 health plans uh physician information and what they call a provider directory which is that find a doctor page on their website. And so we are powering tens of

millions Americans every single day every single year to help them find the right doctor. And that's our information. It's flowing into those tools into those pages. So I know I said we wouldn't talk about acquisitions but uh both ribbon health is in that business and also vetera health is in that business. Were you doing this before then? And those are ads to what you're doing already or that kind of new market for you. In 2022 I said wow we have all this information about physicians. Let's go and sell to health

plans and digital health companies. They need it. When we started to go into that market we realized wow Ribbon's pretty good with digital health and they were growing with health plans and VA. They were all over the place with health plans. Tough competition. Let's get out of this. But we learned more about that market. And then uh as we grew and grew on the life sciences side, uh I continued to pitch those founders, Nate at Ribbon and Megan at Beta, like we should do this together. What are we

doing here? Being so separate. Eventually they persistence helps. And so eventually we all came together here. Arms were twisted with silver cross palms and stuff, I'm sure. All right. Fantastic. So, why don't you uh why don't you open up and show me what the experience is like for a customer? I assume that the the well, you tell me about which customers you're going to be, but I assume that the typical customer is at a at a at a farmer company. So uh um the it's less exciting

to see the the demo for a digital health and health plan because it's an API and I don't know if you want me to walk through and so I I'll start with but but just this so this is the de this is the demo of the uh the traditional H1 product as it were before you before you acquisitions. Okay, what are we looking at here? You're looking at a medical science lison manager. This is me as a admin here. And instead of using LinkedIn, you could come into H1 and get the latest information about every

healthcare professional that you follow, every doctor you follow. This guy's presenting in 3 days at this conference. You could see upcoming medical conferences. I'll scroll down. See this guy tweeted two seconds ago. This person's speaking in July. Get really the latest information. So you're you're out scraping every conference website as well to figure out what these doctors are doing and who I didn't even show you this map, but check this out. It gets even better. I could tell you the

current live active congresses. I tell you everything that's going on at these congresses right now in real time uh everything about it. And I could also use our AI summarization to say what happened yesterday and it's going to go summarize it for you. You know the people speaking there, you know the social, you need the sessions, the posters, everything you can imagine. This one's literally taking place in Libsen Portugal. In 2 seconds here, it's going to summarize what happened

yesterday there in Portugal. You don't need to go there anymore in the future. Don't tell the conference organiz that you won't tell them organize that. But pretty cool, right? Yeah. Link out to the sources, everything you could imagine. Um, but the way it's normally used is you come in and search breast cancer. It's going to pull up, go to people tab. It's going to pull up everything. Let me clear my filters. Uh, it's going to pull up every healthcare professional in the world that does work

in breast cancer. Um, I'll load here in a second. someone in California, Spain, Texas, Germany, Germany, a lot of Germans that are experts in breast cancer here. Uh, and everything you could filter, you could search. There's thousands, millions of people here and about a healthcare professional. You could see everything about them, where they work, their scientific research, their clinical trials, the medical congresses, they their tweets, the patients they see. You click here, it's really cool.

You can see all their patients they see. person sees 727 unique patients breast cancer, their network of influence, who they publish with, who they speak with, who they work on a clinical trial with, everything you can imagine where they work. Really, really powerful. Um, so this is so go on. Oh, you go ahead. This is a this is the experience for a medical affairs professional if you're trying to find thought leading healthcare professionals, thought leading doctors in America. So the so the typical

initial uh uh uh use case for this this this this this uh type of client the medical affairs professional is I need to figure out which doctors I should be getting my teams you know in front of because I want to influence them about my medication or my drug or whatever my my policy is. Yeah. It's when a life science company's launching a drug they want to educate doctors prior to launch about this clinical benefits of of that drug compared to what's in the market. not selling it. It's not approved. You

want to start to educate people about it. And so that is what it's used for. And before you started doing this, how was this done? Spreadsheets. I I will tell you a funny story. In 2004, three, two, long time ago, 20 years ago, I got somehow involved in a project doing analysis of uh trying to connect which doctors, nefologists were attached to which um to which kidney dys centers or you know neurologist or which hospitals in order to try to help I think it must have been Am I figure out you know who who was the

people to talk to about the new drug drove they were bringing out and also I think how to sell them more of the one they already had and or my recollection was that was you know you were like literally holding two spreadsheets up to the light and trying to match them together it was the data was dreadful uh we could answer that for you in like 10 seconds yeah it's a whole ball game these days I suspect I suspect you had you been around in 20 2004 we wouldn't have had a consulting project but that's

probably you know that's probably a good thing fantastic so tell me so that's really fascinating so that's one major use Um, and then tell me about clinical trials. Yeah, clinical trials. So, if I come in, I'll search breast cancer again. Um, if I search breast cancer, same search this products used to find out. I'll sort here by the most promising investigator. Who are the top doctors that have experience doing work in breast cancer and tell me everything about them. Our friend Hope, who we

looked at before, here you can see something different. Search breast cancer. You could see she sees 161 patients in breast cancer. You can see the race and ethnicity of that patient population. It's deidentified, but you could see the types of p patient profiles she's seeing. 78 clinical trials. So now, if you want to work with Hopeo, there's no better place to go. You know, she's done a clinical trial at this location, as well as over here. You can see her race, ethnicity, the

language she speaks, her patient population, her clinical trial experience, the sponsors that she works with, the patients she sees, the trials she works on, everything you can imagine. Uh there's nothing better. Uh and so that is that's what we do. Two quick examples. So for this case, um if you want to go back go back to hope for a sec for go back to hope for one second. So I said there there are two sort of questions we're using. Presumably I need to find a whole bunch of centers for my drug if I'm doing the

clinical trial. So do I do it one by one or can this thing can you run a can you run a sort of search in the background to give me the the list of the top top five I should go to? Actually, the way that people actually start to use it is they would come to our trial page first. Yeah. I type in breast cancer. They're going to they start with answering the question of what is the average enrollment rate, right? How many patients do I need to recruit? Let me look at all the previous studies and

then I'm going to look at what are the sites, the hospitals that are doing uh breast cancer uh clinical trials and research. Who has the patients in breast cancer? Then after they pick the site, then they eventually get to the doctor. It's like, okay, great. Texas Oncology. Now I'm at Texas Oncology. I'm going to look at all the affiliated sites with Texas Oncology. So I look at like what who else is there? I then want to look at who are the people that work at Texas Oncology in breast cancer. Uh the

patient profile of those individuals. You might add some sorts and filters, biomarkers, diversity about the institution. And so you really start with like enrollment rate investigator and then eventually get to the investigator. Um it's the way it works. And then at that point am I now well so so and this would be somebody at a CRO or somebody at a farmer companies which clinical trials. So CR do this as well as pharma companies figuring that out and the clinical research organization of course who run trials actually run

the trials for for the drug companies. Um so now I've been identify the the centers and then the doctors and the rest of it. uh is this also a communication platform or does that have to do do I gut somewhere else to to actually uh you generally go to hop's profile you use her email that we provide for you but that's where we want to get to I mean it's we have doctors using it and we have pharma companies and sites using and CRO's like everyone's using it we want to facilitate that communication as well

there's some compliance elements to it as you get into medical and commercial use cases but for clinical 100% that's where we want to get to fantast fascinating so Um, great. So, that's really interesting to see how you're doing this. Let's uh let's turn it off now and tell me a little bit about um the the the company. You have uh you I think raised a couple hundred million. So, since those days when we had no money and Y Combinator back in the boom time um and uh as obviously now have

just as you mentioned just made these these two acquisitions. Um uh had you made some acquisition before or like this the first time hearing? Did a couple small ones. These were pretty meaty though. Ribbon and beta were fairly large. Yeah, both of them I believe would have raised more than 50 million each. So it was pretty ribbon raised about 75 and VA raised about 80. Yeah. Okay. So rather rather more than that. Um and you raised a couple hundred million. So presumably um I wanted to talk to you about sort of two things.

One is you mentioned a little bit earlier is that okay so I'm doing this I'm expanding my product set um for for H1. have to start thinking about, you know, who who are the people I'm bumping into in the market and there's a couple you you have to you have to talk them into it. What what else is out there in this world? There are a couple of companies that, you know, you'd think um I would think IQ and some others would be and potentially Doximity would be sort of thinking about this world. Is there

somebody doing kind of your narrow niche in these two areas? The way to uh there's competitors in each of the segments we work with. The thing that we're doing unique is nobody's going and saying across all aspects to healthcare. I need to connect with a doctor uh from a hospital, an insurance company, a life science company, a doctor themselves, all a patient. People do it for pharma companies, people do it for insurance companies. Nobody's doing it cross. And so that that's the unique spin that we

have here where we know, hey, the same information that Fizer is using to find a doctor to run clinical trials, actually the same information that I want as a patient. Are they good? Do they see patients that look like me? Are they available? Where do they work? And so that's our thesis that like it's the same information and we know that doctors want to participate and hospitals and research sites want to participate. So that's the unique spin that we that we're doing compared to

everyone else. Interesting. And then that leads to the obvious question of of uh you know how easy slash how how hard um and how much effort is there involved in integrating all those different data sets you know because ribbon have one and fa have one and you have one and the other companies require have got have them as well there is ton of new data out there and as I mention as we mentioned before this data changes very very rapidly I mean you're looking at once you've got them in the database you

can start picking up when they go to conferences and stuff but I mean you know they move house and they they go from one plan to another and you know all that stuff happens. So um how easy is it for you to get it down to one database? What's that process been like so far? And then and then and then the followup followup question to that one is can you genuinely use that one platform and database for all those different products that you're talking about? Uh on to answer the latter question uh yes for 95% of it

incredible. Um obviously there are nuances. So when we were looking at Hope Rugo on the clinical trial platform, we showed where she worked on a clinical trial. It's not really relevant to someone in medical affairs. They just want to know where she works. So there's some texture that 5% changes. A patient wants to know which phone number do I call to book an appointment for a patient. A someone at farm wants to know which phone number do I call to get to the doctor. They don't care if it's an

for appointment for patient. So there's nuances to it, but generally 95% the exact same thing across all segments, which is the unique view that we have in the world. Um, how hard was it to pull together? It's taken like eight years and we're still not done. Um, if you acquire somebody who's gone a far a far way down the path like a ribbon or or a Vader, I mean it when you say it's not are they are you currently operating them as sort of three separate databases, but they are all completely

integrated. We all bring special things. So what Ribbon had the best of? Ribbon had the best physician address data. What what building? Okay, you go to 102 Main Street, they're in the fourth floor, suite 104. That is very difficult data to get. Ribbon was is was the best at that. Veta really good at network data. What health insuranceances does this doctor accept? An amazing accurate score. Amazing AI and data science team for scoring how well the phone number is accurate. The doctor actually works

here. best data science team around doctor's data out there. Um, completely integrated. The thesis is integrated in deeply. There's a lot of overlap between the data that we have to cut out the overlap and bring the unique special sauce in. That's that's fabulous for both and obviously for both of them you've got a sort of different set of clients as well. Um, how how are the clients taken to the uh to the integration? Do they just not care because it's you know you keeping those

same brands going? Are they now an H1 brand? How how are they how are they thinking about it? Hopefully, if our marketing team did its job, it's all in H1 brand. Uh um our thesis was pretty simple. It is simple. Um only do an acquisition if the company that's being acquired's customer base benefits more on day one. Uh it doesn't matter how they benefit H1. It matters if you're benefiting their customers. Sure. And so with Ribbon, we said we're going to give you guys a whole bunch of free stuff really

quickly. Uh, same thing with VA. Whole bunch of free stuff for nothing's going to change with your tech, your beta. It's great. It's keeping the same, but we're going to give you a whole bunch of free stuff included in your subscription. Uh, and that's going great. It's been incredibly successful, honestly, for ribbon and beta is brand new, but we feel really good about it as well. Fantastic. So, um, let's talk a little about the world of digital health market. We're taping this

on a Monday. We just had our second IPO of the year. Um, and this one was interesting. Was it Amada Health was because it's it's been around a long time. still not making any still making a profit. There's been an issue. You uh you raised money at a time when a bunch of when a bunch of uh digital health companies went public and uh some of them may not have been ready. Put it this way, the market perhaps wasn't as ready for them as they thought it was. We can discuss what that's like. Um when

you're having the conversations and I don't know where you were with, you know, original valuations back when you raised your money compared to the the valuations that you struck at and presume these are all stock deals I assume within. So you had some uh I don't know how you've how you how you've made these uh other things. Where do you think the sort of market from an acquirer's perspective is at the moment? I mean you are you uh were you were you finding uh these conversations to be

relatively easy or was it uh you people huddling together for strength at the last minute or you think it's still you know a little tricky to find because there are still a lot of independent companies out there who you think well hang on shouldn't these guys all be put together? So what do you where do you think we are? We're in the early days of a big wave of consolidation. Yeah, big big big wave. Um there was a health tech bubble in 2020 to 2021. A lot of companies got funding. It's really easy

to raise money as a health tech digital health company and we're seeing a big wave of consolidation. I mean there's like a deal a week announced, right? And I think and I know of ones that have been done and not yet announced that are fairly large and so I I think there's a big wave. think there was just too many companies that got started back in the day. So let's talk the other flip side of that I just mentioned. Okay, so MA finally got out. Um Hindra got out. Hindra was, you know, pretty profitable

by the time it it uh it got to the IPO. A lot of those companies in 2020 were not. Am not yet profitable. Seems to be heading that direction. What is your new H1's uh sort of trajectory look like in terms of you know revenue profitability? What's your intention for the uh for the company? We're running a profitable business from here on out. Uh like in and this year we're adjusted a bit positive. Next year it'll be positive. Uh we're going to be running a profitable business from here on out.

The question that I think about more so though is like um are there companies that help fulfill our mission quicker which I I think Ribbon and Beta like right down the strike zone perfect for that? And then if so, how do we bring them together and get everyone excited about it? founders, employees, their investor base, our investor base, our employees, and make it worthwhile for everybody. And if we can do that, we will continue doing acquisitions and we'll do as many as we can that fit that

thesis. Um, so that that's how I think about it. Excellent. All right, last question. Just give me the sort of quick knuckles for the for the companies. You're in a bunch of different countries where it for for your clients, you mentioned I think you think you mentioned every Well, you have data on everywhere other than uh uh than Russia and Iran or whatever it was. Tell me where the business is um in terms of uh and then give me a flavor of where the people are your people. Uh yeah uh our people are based in um the

US uh England and India predominately. So we have offices in those our countries. Um on the revenue side about half of life scienc's revenue is xus. Okay. And so now that we also have the health plan side of the business, about 30ish% of our revenue is XUS. And so we have users in almost 100 countries uh really all over the world using our information to find the right doctor. And so that makes us have teams all over the world supporting them. So we have people that speak Korean, ch Mandarin,

Japanese, Portuguese, Spanish, all over the world supporting the users that use our products. And how many people total on the company? About 350. 350. And is that does that going to go down after the acquisitions as people filter away? Are you going going to be growing? What what's your sense about about uh how many people it takes to to run the company? And and I I guess the other question is, you know, you you you showed me a little bit of AI built into there. Does a lot does some of the AI

that we're seeing start to replace some of the tasks that require to be done in terms of building the data or u it makes it quicker. I I don't think it replaces um the folks that we have on staff. it could like make an engineer 2x productive. So, it might change if we're hiring another engineer, but you're not getting rid of the engineer stones to guide the AI machine to do a lot of the work. Um, in terms of scale, um, we're going to hire people needed to continue to scale the business, support our

customers. Uh, we don't, we like work backwards. We don't work, it's not like bottoms up from employee headcount. It's more of like what's our how many customers are we going to support this year? How many more do we expect to support? How are our customers going to grow? What's needed to support them? And then those questions lead to all the hiring assumptions, right? Um, and then of course I have to ask the last question. Now you're EBO POS positive. You raised a ton of money. You're doing

acquisitions. What about uh what about your next step? Do you have visions of an IPO in the future? Uh, you know, there's some founders I talked to early CEOs like, I want to go public. I don't really care. Uh, what I care about is like, are we doing meaningful work? Are we achieving a mission? Are we able to do it ourselves standalone? Do we need or if if not why do we need to be part of a larger platform? If yes, do we have the capital to continue to support it? Is that capital available

privately or publicly? Let's go answer that. And then are we giving liquidity for the value that's been created over time? And if you answer those questions, I don't really care the way we do it. It could be public, private, whichever way sense, right? And it's actually a great philosophy because I mean I've certainly spoken to a lot of people over the years who said yes yes you know this company is on the IPO track and one or two of those are the ones that went out in the 2020s and I'm still looking at you know

it hasn't it hasn't been as much fun as it might be. On the other hand you do have a couple people who gave you a ton of money who at some point want some of that money back. So you know it's it's a delicate pattern the CEO of startup has used as I'm sure you know at every board meeting. Yes. All right. Okay. I've been speaking with Ariel Catz. is the CEO of H1. Just made a couple of great acquisitions in Ribbon and Vader. Ariel, thanks for your time. Thank you. It was great.