Title: Ben Salter, SafeRide Health
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9-q2IR9zc3M
Language: en
Duration: 00:19:16
Upload Date: May 6, 2026

Transcription:

[music]   >> Hi Matthew Holt on T C V Spotlight and I   am here with Ben Saltzman. He's the   chief product officer of SafeRide   Health. And as you might guess from the   name, SafeRide is in the business of   medical transportation. Which to be   honest is not something I've covered a   whole lot on T C V.   So   Ben, welcome.

First thing's first, there   is ambulances. We've all seen them going   on the freeway, you know, with their red   lights on because they're rushing out to   dinner or whatever. And there is a whole   other world of people who don't make it   to appointments and has a lot of impact   on the health care system because they   didn't get the right ride or whatever.

Tell us about non-emergency medical   transportation. What is it? Why do we   need it? How does it work?   Yeah, thank you. That's a great   question. So foremost, thank you for   having me on.   I really appreciate it. Yeah,   non-emergency medical transport or NEMT   as it's called in the industry is a   specialized service that helps patients   get to and from care.

It can range   anywhere from transportation uh   rideshare, so Uber and Lyft. Um through   wheelchair vans all the way up to   stretcher and lights off sirens off BLS,   so ambulances.   Um many of the patients that we   transport really rely on the service.   They've no other   safe or reliable mean means to get to   care and this is an essential service   for them so that they can get the care   that they need.

And before you guys showed up or maybe   today, how does it typically work? I   mean so who is booking a ride for for   whom and how are they doing it?   Yeah, so that's a great question. So the   industry is about 30 years old.   Um   when we we started about 10 years ago.   When we started, the entire industry was   run on paper and fax machines.

So you'd   have to call into a call center.   They would fax something to a   transportation provider and that   transportation provider might show up.   Um we started 10 years ago and you know,   we had the um   the foresight to say, "Hey, this entire   industry should be digitized, right? Um   it should be all in the cloud.

It should   be run through APIs um   and we should be able to modernize this   industry. So for us, you know, we've   been technology focused from the   beginning.   Um that's how we differentiate ourselves   in the market. Um we always thought   that, "Hey, you know, if a member needed   to   um call a call center be able to book   care to be able to get an appointment to   a doctor, they should also be able to   book transportation at that point as   well.

There's no reason that you know,   they should have to book uh care, hang   up the phone, call someone else and that   person faxes something to a   transportation provider and they might   show up. We thought there was a way to   just digitize this entire industry and   that's um   what we did and that's why we've been   growing so quickly over the last 10   years.

So   uh   most how do you even qualify? So you   know,   I went to the doctor and I drove myself   which was probably fine.   >> [laughter]   >> I know obviously I could have taken a   bus or something, but how do you even   qualify? I mean   is this part of is there like a   stipulation that Medicare or Medicaid or   commercial health plan say this person   is now sufficiently disabled or they   whatever that requires a ride or is this   more that the missed the cost of someone   missing an appointment because they   haven't got the transportation to get   there, you know, they missed the bus or   whatever they don't go and in you know,   is is so high that the provider that   that it's worth them paying for. What's   the sort of economics behind this?   Yeah, so our clients are actually the   largest health plans in the country,   right? And we're really providing   transportation for their members. And   the most of those members are Medicare   Advantage or Medicaid. And the   transportation benefit is actually built   into those plans. So on the Medicaid   side,   it's usually unlimited rides. It's built   into Medicaid. On the Medicare Advantage

side, the health plans have some leeway   on what type of benefit they uh   they have for their their Medicare   Advantage members and it it varies by   plan.   But yes, a lot of this is it's driven on   the Medicare Advantage side at least.   It's driven by the health plan. It's a   benefit that they want their members to   be able to get to the care because in   the long run, getting to care   improves   the overall members' health and lowers   costs for them.

Cool.   So so what actually happens? I mean   you've got a demo you can show me, but   who who is who are you? Who's booking a   ride and   what's going to happen next? Yeah, so   before I jump into the demo, you know,   our North Star is really when a member   realizes that they need care, we want to   be anywhere that they have that that   need.

We want them to be able to access   that benefit. So that means that if the   member wants to call into our call   center, they can call us. If they want   to call into their health plan's call   center, they can call the health plan.   If they want to work directly with their   care provider like a dialysis center,   they can work with the dialysis center.

If the member is comfortable using our   mobile app, they can use our mobile app.   Um all of these entry points run through   our system and it funnels them into our   platform. And then we essentially   receive that ride.   We ping our transportation network.   We give the ride to to our   transportation network.

Our   transportation network provides that   ride. And then underneath that, you   know, we're providing data analytics,   billing, encounter support all all kind   of like running underneath that as well.   So what I'm going to show you uh   in a couple minutes is really the the   CSR version of this meaning that members   call into our call center, they're   talking to one of our CSRs and we're   we're finding that member in our   platform and then we're booking a ride   for them.

So you are putting together just before   we get there, you're putting together   kind of all that health plan eligibility   part. Your network and then all the   admin around it. Basically you fuse   those three things together. That's   Yeah, that's exactly right. We're we're   really a bridge between the health plan,   care providers, members and   transportation.

It's sort of like you know, a four   square essentially. We're we're really   we're pulling all those different   elements together.   Fantastic. Well, let's take a look. So   right now we're inside of the SafeRide   platform. This is where our CSRs live.   Loaded into this platform, we've got all   the top health plans in the country that   we work with, tens of millions of users.

When a member calls into our call   center, the first thing the CSR does is   hit the verify the member. So they'll   look them up in the platform.   Um confirm that they are who they are   through either their birthday or zip   code or member ID. Once they've looked   up the member in the platform, they can   verify that they have an eligible   benefit with us.

Um   they can look up the eligibility dates,   um the plan benefit structure around   that plan and confirm that yes, you   know, the member is eligible in our   platform.   First time that we talk to a member, we   do a transportation assessment. So we   determine you know, what is the best   mode of transportation for them.

In our   platform, we have a whole range of NEMT   services. So anywhere from rideshare, so   Lyft and Uber, all the way up to   stretchers and BLS ALS which is lights   off sirens off ambulance. We do a   mobility assessment to assess you know,   what is the right transportation for   this member. Once we have all that   loaded in our platform, we'll talk to   the member about where they need to go.

Um   and why are they going? So the first   thing we ask is you know, what type of   uh um   appointment are you going to? We'll load   that into our platform.   Behind the scenes, there's a lot going   on, right? This UI looks very simple on   the front end, but in the back end we're   doing a ton of stuff.   You know, we do over a million rides a   month   and in in order to be able to do that, a   lot of our back end is automated.

We're   running on very sophisticated algorithms   that help us do our job. But essentially   what we're doing is we're gathering   information around the member. We look   at their benefit structure. We have very   specific rules around benefits that can   be very granular.   Members' benefits can be   whittled down to structures that are   they might be mileage restriction, they   might be trip purposes that they're   allowed to go to.

So they might be able   to go to dialysis, but they're not   allowed to go to their gym. We're as   we're booking a ride, we're checking   against all that stuff in the background   to make sure that we're doing a   compliant ride. So that at the end of   the service to the member, we know that   we'll be able to submit a clean   encounter for this service.

So a lot of   this is happening behind the scenes.   I'll talk through some of that as we go   through, but right now we've just we   pulled in a trip purpose. They're going   for blood work. The system is telling me   that for this this member's benefit,   blood work is an approved trip purpose.   So we're moving through the ride booking   flow at this point.

Um this member is   going to go for a trip on the 15th.   I pull up their home address. I'm going   to look for an approved care provider in   the area. Um we have most of the   approved care providers in the country   loaded in our platform and as we're   going through and we're booking rides,   we're looking at um we're confirming   that hey, yes, this is an approved   location.

This location is approved for   this member's benefit and all of that is   happening behind the scenes as we go   through this.   I'm going to   book a ride for 11. We support round   trip rides. We support recurring rides   for members. So anyone that needs to go   to dialysis, you know, they go three   times a week, we can seamlessly book   those types of rides in the platform.

Um   so all that data is getting entered in   the platform right now and then I'm   about to book the ride, but behind the   scenes,   we're now looking at it. We know all the   ride information at this point. We know   who the member is. We know their   mobility type. We're now going to go   ping our network behind the scenes and   we're going to look at   we're trying to figure out who is the   right provider for this ride.

So we have   Lyft and Uber on our platform. We also   have 5,000 local transportation   companies called NEMT's. They are   we have a ton of data around these   companies. So we're going through and   we're looking at their past performance   and we're looking at who is the most   reliable transportation provider that   can provide this ride and then we   surface that in the platform and we book   the member to that that member.

It's all   happening seamlessly, but this is   algorithm really allows us to do a   million rides   a month be able to maintain a 99%   fulfillment rate, a 98% on-time rate. A   lot of that happens because of the   secret sauce behind the scenes. All   right, and now you can see I've booked a   ride in the platform   and it's in the platform now.

But, one   thing I'll I'll quickly show you is um   I will activate a a ride for you quickly   so you can see that as well. So, um   a lot of our round trips when a member   goes to get care and then needs a ride   home we don't necessarily know when   their appointment is going to end.   So, we allow them to tell us, "Hey, I'm   done with my appointment.

I'm ready to   go." We call that a flexible pickup   ride.   Um I will activate one of those really   quickly   um   in the platform. I'll show you what that   looks like. And the member in order to   tell us that hey, you're done with your   appointment, you can either call back in   our call center or you can use our   mobile app to be able to to activate   this ride as well.

Um so, I just   activated this ride here. Uh but, you   can also see I've got simulating this is   my my driver app as well. The member can   also come into their Sorry, the member   app. They can go into the member app and   do this exact same thing that I just did   here. Um a lot of our members uh find   that that's uh an easier way for them to   do this because uh you know, they have   the app with them at the appointment and   um they you know, can come in and they   they can know that like, "Hey, here, you   know, like I'm ready to go." And they   don't need to call into a call center.   But, let me   uh let me show you here. But, now we can   see that this ride uh is inbound.   Tells me that hey, a driver is going to   be coming to pick us up and um   you know, we can actually see where the   member is at uh on a map as the driver   comes in.   Cool, and that's So, so you've got um   basically, you know, most people I guess   by now have been trained by Uber and   Lyft how these ride shares work. What  

share of the rides that you get of the   million a month, what share are coming   through the call center and then

generated by somebody working for the   plan or working for the provider and how   much are booked by the consumer? What   are the numbers?   Yeah, no, it's a great question. So,   we're getting rides booked from call   center,   um from health plans, from care   providers, and from the mobile app. And   it really depends on um   the population and the plan.

Um you   know, we have some where it's 100% our   call center. We have ones where it's um   50% from a care provider, ones that are   100% from from health plan.   Um but, what we are seeing across the   board is an adoption of mobile which   we're really excited about. Um you know,   we truly believe that mobile is kind of   the future.

Um you know, when was the   last time that you tried to book an   airline or an air ticket through by   calling into a call center? Um you know,   that way is almost gone away and we're   we're really seeing um that same pattern   in health care. So, we're really excited   about that trend as well.   Yeah, I mean I would say that you know,   obviously among other things it's just   if you can get the   uh member or the patient to get used to   doing it or maybe their caregiver to do   it for them, it obviously saves the call   center call which costs money. So, you   know, you're it's obviously an economic   benefit. Um   how does the payment work here? So, I   assume that you know, so in this   particular case you had a price or two   there for what what the Uber ride cost.   Um   who's who's who's paying? Do you Do you   manage the payment so long as the   member's within their benefit? And then   you you get written a check at the end   of the month or whatever by the by the   health plan or are they paying Is there   like a health plan account that's paying   Uber directly or you know, how how how   how how does how does that work out   then? Secondly, how do you get paid?   Yeah, no, great question. So, yeah, how

do the economics of all this work?   So, we're paying for everything, right?   So, at the end of the day um you know,   we manage our network. So, like I said,   we've got Lyft, Uber, and then 5,000   local transportation providers. So, you   know, we are ensuring that when we book   rides, they're compliant rides which   means that   we will be able to pay our providers for   those rides, we will get paid by the   health plan for those rides, and they   will be able to submit clean encounters   for that those rides. So, we facilitate   all of that, right? Like we gather all   the data that we need. We first pay um   the transportation providers. Then we   turn around and we submit all those   invoices to the health plan.   We get paid by the health plan and we   submit the supporting encounter data for   them to be able to submit to the CMS. I   see. So, that that that that all makes a   lot of sense. So, you're the agency for   for basically the admin. And then how   long does it take? And this is is one of 

the demo you can close if you're done we   can close the demo now. But, uh   here here we go. You

you're canceling the ride so then the   ride actually shows up.   Yeah, real ride. Got to cancel this   ride. All right, better cancel that one   so that some poor guy doesn't show up in   the middle of Denver wondering where his   where his patient is.   So, how   how does how you know, if you have a   health plan there's a lot of stuff going   on here because in the background cuz   you're setting up you know, you're   bringing in detailed member lists.

The   member list changes. Obviously, you want   to manage 5,000 transportation   companies. They get new ones. They go   out of business. Stuff changes for those   of course. You know,   how and then obviously you have to hook   into Lyft and and Uber's APIs. So, how   how long if I'm a new health plan or new   customer to come on board, how long how   long does it take me to get set up?   Yeah,   it's a great question.

So, you know,   these   implementations is what we call them.   They can range anywhere from 3 weeks to   6 months. It really just depends on how   complex it is and a lot of it has to do   with um   you know, the needs of our health plan   clients. Some of them have specific   dates that they want to start on. Some   of them need it as fast as possible.

But, yeah, I mean the fastest one that   we've done is like 3 weeks essentially.   So, it's quite a complex thing to put to   put it together which I guess is is a   nice little little moat for you guys.   So, let's let's talk a bit about Safe   Ride. You mentioned you're around 10   years. Um   and you raised that you raised a chunk   of change about 5 years ago I remember   four or five years ago, but I don't   think you raised any I don't didn't   finally raise any sense.

So, give me a   sense of the funding that's gone into   the company and give me a sense of the   scale that you're at now.   Yeah, no,   great question, right? So, yeah, no,   we've gone through multiple rounds of   funding. Our last round was a seed round   at that point. You know, we raised   almost $100 million to date.

Um we are   profitable. So, we we haven't had a   recent   >> Dirty word around here. I shouldn't have   It's true. It is It is. But, yeah, no,   we So, we've we've   we've the last one that we've had is the   seed round at this point. But, yeah, no,   we've When was that?   When was that?   It was a couple years ago.

Okay, so I   might I might have missed one in my in   my little scanning there. Okay, so   that's great.   And then give me a sense of the scale of   the company. You said you're doing a   million rides a month. How how how many   people is that? How many health plans   you contracting with? Give me a sense of   of how many people you have on the on   the team.

Yeah, no, great question all around. So,   you know, we're we're closing in on $750   million   of top line revenue.   We work with the top health plans in the   country, but we've got a client list of   over 50 plus clients.   Uh we have about 1,000 employees at this   point. Um so, we've we've been growing   at about a clip of almost like 40% a   year for 10 years.

So,   um yeah, it's been phenomenal growth.   Fantastic. And then let's ask ask the   obvious question. What share of the I   mean how how what share of the   non-emergency medical transit market are   you? And how how much how much more room   is there to go in this? And I mean and   and then how many   and I guess what I'll ask that question   and then I'll have to set follow up.

Yeah, I mean the the typical number   that's thrown around is that it's a $6   billion industry.   You know, and we So, we've got a   significant chunk of that. We are number   two or three in the industry. We've been   growing really quickly. So, you know,   clearly there's there's room for us to   grow.   Okay, and then the other answer is you   mentioned this, right? It's It's great   that people show up to their   appointments and all the rest of it.

Have you done any research or work or is   there cross-industry research and work   looking at Okay, what's the actual   impact on this on kind of health costs   and health outcomes? We hear a lot about   obviously about people who end up in the   ER because they didn't get make it to   the right appointments or you know,   dialysis or whatever.

Um and we hear a   lot about the costs you know, the   inefficiency costs that people missing   appointments in general in in in health   care for all types of appointments to   our patients to to to to to inpatients   especially care and the rest of it. Um   do you have a sense as to you know, the   money that's being spent on   non-emergency transportation, how much   is it paying for itself?   Yeah,   it's uh   it's kind of the gold standard, right?   In the industry.

So, everyone that you   talk to in the industry   they feel like it is saving money,   right? And just when you intuitively   think about it,   ensuring access for some of the most at   risk members,   giving them additional care up front   before they end up in the ER   will save money. All right, well I've   been talking with Ben Solder.

He's the   chief product officer of Safe Ride   Health. He showed us how that works. So,   this is one of the behind the scenes   things that's happening a lot in health   care that people don't think about much.   So, Ben, thanks for sharing to us.   Thank you so much. Thanks for having me.