Title: Bevey Miner, eFax
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZbGxvW3MJ3U
Language: en
Duration: 00:22:30
Upload Date: April 20, 2026

Transcription:

Now, if you hold GC, I am here with  Beybl friend who is these days looks   like a shield shield. That's an experienced a year ago on the record and you work with  EAC. So, what the hell happened? Well,   interesting question, Matthew. Um, the  company is Consensus Cloud Solutions.   And the company's always been consensus out  solutions since we spun off and went public   ourselves, right? Um, you'll notice at our booth  we've got the EAC brand, right? And the reason   we are showing up and it's EAC by consensus cloud  solution. The reason we are showing up as EAC is   because this year at HIMS we really wanted to set  the record straight that digital cloud faxing is   not the problem with interoperability. Paper faxes  are but digital cloud faxing is not the problem.   The problem is all this unstructured data. All  the unstructured data that happens with faxes,  

that happens with scanned images, that happens  with TIFF images. All that unstructured data   can't be queried. It can't be a part of TEKA.  You can't query what you can't find. Now,   cloud faxing is send and receive all day long. And  we do that very well and have been doing it for 27   years. About three years ago, we introduced  an intelligent extraction solution.

And that   intelligence traction solution doesn't even  have to start with the facts, but it allows the   find piece to actually become the critical thing  that we need to do. CMS defines interoperability   as send, receive, find, and integrate. Vaccine  technology send receive all day long. Can't find   so once we introduced a find and intelligent  extraction solution, we can fire up TEA.  

I've talked to a lot of regulators um including  Dr. Thomas Keane and including Amy Gleason with   the CMS Align networks. You can't ignore this  pile of all this unstructured data and just   assume that the industry is going to go magical.  Everything's on fire. We're all fast on fire.   We're all using fire because all of this stuff  has really important patient information in it.  

What we want to solve in the industry is is is  don't say we have to axe the digital cloud fax.   Let's axe the paper fax machine. This isn't going  to go away. In fact, it's growing pretty big,   especially as we get um rural health off of  paper fax machines. The the next level of   maturity is digital cloud faxing.

From there,  once it's digital, now you can do all sorts of   things on it. When we introduced electronic  health records back during meaningful use,   right, and I was at all scripts at the time, our  dream then was that we would just take this paper   record and we would kind of personify it into  this electronic health record. So we could just   get rid of the paper.

Once we did that though and  there were discrete data elements in that EHR, we   could do POP health, we could do clinical decision  support stuff, we could do um efficacy all sorts   of things that we can do because there's discrete  data elements now inside that electronic health   record. That's what a digital fact will do with  the capability to do intelligence on top of it.   So we want to really make the industry understand  that that's not the problem.

The facts is not   the problem. Extracting it and getting rid of all  that unstructured data is the solution. Okay. So,   since we last talked, I've had some journeys  around the healthare system. And let me tell you,   uh, you mentioned your daughter is a prosecutor  in California. Uh, I'm one of the prosecutions   myself. Let's take the main district off.

Um,  they were sent a referral from my lovely primary   care head off of one medical. Somehow the referral  from one medical got into the blue shield system,   created a prior authorization. So, I have an  echo cardiogram. I've written this up on my blog.   you know what's coming next.

I call uh the number  on the referral that medical wants me to call for   the health card, you know, imaging center and  they go, we don't have any this referral. I say,   no, no, no. They send it to you, I see the PDF  and I call back two weeks later and they go,   I don't know, we don't have the referral.  So, finally I call them, I say, can I email   you with a referral? If I gamble PDF and I get who  somebody or email it to and then that person goes,   "Oh, this is a cardiology imaging referral, not  a not a regular imaging referral.

 And it turns   out to the cardiology which of course in the same  building, but here's where it gets interesting.   They say great um we can only take we can't take  an email that told me it was because because Hippo   wouldn't allow it.

That makes sense, right? But  then I download might have been eax I downloaded   and see what it was somebody's fax product I had  to download a trial and it got cancelled. So I fax   everything. So now they've got a referral which  was typed on a PDF typed in may or may not a piece   of paper assumingly somewhere they have the prior  as well.

this has now arrived and now they can   actually they can now do something with my what  is wrong with that picture and what can EAX do in   that picture to sort of fix that and get the data  out of it that's required to help you well a lot   of things are wrong number one you're going to get  late in treatment you're going to get frustrated   as a patient and your and your health outcomes you  may even abandon well that's actually I was about   to abandon I should keep going I actually do have  a problem yes and but your health outcomes could   actually have been horrific. Right. I might have  brought that having never had the Yeah. But you   bring up a a really interesting use case that  we are we are doing today with imaging centers.   So hospitals that own their imaging centers or um  IDN that own imaging centers. This imaging center   by the way has both the in the same building  you have the cardiology imaging and the and   the regular imaging and those are different

numbers you know one to the one to the fax um so as an example um we if the if the order  is coming in as a fax and this is an actual real   use case that we're doing we intercept the fax we  pull out all that structured data all the patients   demographic information. We pull out what the  order is for and let's just say it's a mammogram,   but it's a mammogram with contrast, right? We map  it into the radiology system so that they can see   the order without data entering anything.

If it  would have come as a fax order to them, somebody   still has to data enter it or it's sitting in  a pile of all these orders that they've gotten   once it's extracted data and it can be mapped into  the um the imaging center their the RAD system the   RAD is system um and they can see because we read  this isn't just a mammogram this is a mammogram   with imaging is what is on that order.

Now they  can see okay do we have a mammogram with imaging   uh with with contrast they need a mammogram with  contrast is excuse I'm saying imaging of course   it's an image but a mammogram with contrast and do  we have that machine and do we have that machine   available and can that machine schedule the  patient for Monday Tuesday Wednesday um and   once all that's done no human has actually touched  this at this point it's getting in it's getting   looked that and it can actually be mapped into  their scheduling system.

So, you can send a a text   message directly to the patient within 24 hours.  We've got your order and we have uh opportunities   for you to come in Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday. All  of that is because we pulled out the structured   data for that image. And um for every day that  a patient that is expected to get the next level   of care, a a a mammogram or some sort of imaging,  every day 25% of the trust in the system for the   patient is eroded.

That imaging center needs to  get that referral because it's their lifeblood,   right? The patient's going to go somewhere else.  You could have just said to the doctor, I they   haven't called me. find another place for me to  go. I mean, so in this particular case, right,   they asked for referrals for I don't know how  they I assume the referral was being probably some   other way.

So if they had plugged in eax somewhere  in the middle of that, right, and it didn't go to   their fax number went to the fax number became  the thing you read it would think they should   be automatically and they haven't done that yet,  right? So the product the product that intercepts   that is is called clarity. That's our AI data  extraction piece, right? And um once you've   created all these um discrete data elements, I  mean let's say the imaging center wanted it all on   fire. They they needed to keep it in fire so that  it could have um be mapped.

We can send that as a   fire message. We can send that as fast on fire.  We can send that because we have a backbone that   is actually an interface an interface backbone.  It's a semantic interface backbone. Once you've   got all this extracted data, now you can do prompt  questions on it. So if you've got the extracted   data going into the radiology is systems, you  can say um we need to see all of our patients   that need to have an image with contrast because  those machines are sitting without being used and   we need to get those patients in fast and you  can you can add questions just like you would   for any generative AI solution. So I I'll I'll  tell you tell you something amusing which leads   to another question but um so eventually after  the facts go through somebody calls me back and   of course I don't answer the phone's going  to ring but I have a voice so I see I see   the transcription of the voicemail and they've  arranged me the very next appointment I came  

for 3 weeks and it happens to be Santa Rosa  which is an hour from my house one next to my   house. So I said well I can go to my chart and  maybe I can change it. So you go to my my chart   uh and my chart shows me the appointment but does  not show me does not even to change it. Doesn't   even need a set appointment but only if I want the  background but it does lead to a question right.  

So you have the flexes going back and forth in  these departments. I mean this one is still very   manual manually treating manual appointment next  day I change it to one the day after the one they   said before I can 10 minutes my house my house  but there is you know photos epic maybe maybe but you know what whatever right um and there's  a lot of information sitting in there and there's   people trying to get it in and out different  methods. It's not all electronic.

It's something   electronic. How does what you're doing playing  into that? So, what's interesting is that we   have a really big effort for patients access to  their data, my chart as an example, right? This   administration, Trump's promise and campaign  was that every American would be able to access   their medical information, right? Yeah. Well,  it's there.

And now we have now we have a bunch   of pledges that are happening for patients access  to their data, right? And um and the QR code that   you can put underneath and there's your patients  access to their data. And what do you do with all   the unstructured data where the patient has a  lab result in here, the patient may have some,   you know, clinical information that's in there.

um the USCDI data set that gives the patient all   of their entire history, their summary is sitting  in unstructured data and you can't query that. It   it can't be queried because it's not queryable.  So the Qins are only operating on a small subset   of data that is fire enabled and structured  data. It's going to be biased. It's going   to have missing pieces of information.

And the  patients are going to think, "Oh, here's all the   information I need." Until they drill down to say,  you know, two years ago, I had my hemoglobin A1C   was like pre-diabetic. I want to go find that. And  and and it's an unstructured PDF somewhere. So,   for them to search through it, it can be a  challenge. When you look at an electronic health   record, there's a lot of PDFs that are attached  to the patient's chart, right? I was just looking   at mine. Both medical and labor and epic pieces  have all have different structures.

Some of them   are they think they some of them they processed  internally and could show me like you know the   number comes a nice little yellow red thing but  I'm not sure they're all in one place and we have   a lot of work to do to get that. We have a lot of  work to get a common record for patients. I mean,   I have two my chart accounts.

Now, it's easy  because you can say I want them to link 19,   right? But I also go see another system that  doesn't use my chart. They use follow my meds   or no, follow my health or something like that  and it's not integrating as it should. So,   I know the promise is great and I remember  the days and you probably do too, Matthew,   where every patient was going to carry around a  USB thing, right? They were going to carry this   around and they just put it in a machine. France.  Yeah. Or we're going to have this magical card.

Probably not available in America. Right. Right.  Um but I do think there's promise and and I think   the promise is to to really recognize that here's  a whole bunch of data. I look around at a lot of   these companies here at HIMS and they boast that  they do workflow enhancements that they can do   prior authorizations that they can do um you know  population health when I ask them what are you   doing with all the unstructured data they go we  have an OCR solution whenever I hear we have an   OCR solution that's not really extracting data at  an intelligent level OCR knows that that's a B a   V and a Y and my first name doesn't even know  it's name. If you use intelligent extraction,   it does contextual. It says, "Go find me the name  of a this patient in this form," which could be   in the upper leftand corner, could be down in  the bottom. It really understands how to ask   the right kind of questions and OCR is kind of a  gap. So, we are actually playing a role where we  

can un we can create um some very sophisticated  intelligence off of all this unstructured data.   So many of these workflow solutions can have um  better data going in and you know I I mean I've   talked to I've talked to Dr. Thomas Keane, head  of ONC or ASPC and I said do you really want to   make TECA successful? You got to talk about how we  can manage getting all the unstructured data into   the you know into a fire enabled TEA framework  and rural health and you and I have talked about   this because it's been a passion of mine. Health  equity has been a passion. Rural health can't   rip and replace. They can't support all the the  fire enabled you know solutions they're supposed   to support. Um, you know, the CDC in their data  modernization now is saying that all electronic   case reporting has to be done via fire. Well, I  mean, the community clinic, they definitely need   to populate these repositories, these databases,  and otherwise they're going to be completely

biased, right? And then um you know I mean if you  look at the um the prior authorization rule 57   going live January 1st for Medicare Advantage  patients. What is that substance abuse clinic   that needs to now ask for an authorization so  that that patient can stay in another you know   90 days of treatment? They can't send a fire  enable prior authorization to actually be able   to have that approved. We intercept their fact.  We say to them and we do a lot in rural health.  

We say to them just keep doing what you're doing.  We'll intercept it in the middle and we will send   that as a fire prior authorization. It's it's  important the industry understands that it's   not you have to recognize that there is not tech  equity with every provider. All right. uh give me   your your your forecast prediction.

 There's  all these different holes that you've got,   you know, unstructured data and they're looking  around and AI and people asking what questions. Uh do you think that the consumer patient to smaller  provider and any provider experience gets a lot   better in two years or do you think we're still  fighting this? So I mean firstly ask you is Amy   is Amy Gleason the team going to succeed or are  we uh are we going to be in war here in Paris   in 5 years time? You know I still think I think  still think healthcare is transactional.

um if   everybody was in a closed system, everybody talked  Epic. Um you know, it would be great. Um but we   don't have that kind of a system. And um this  is a an administration of deregulations up for   whatever you think you can do from an innovation  perspective. Um, when you have a regulation,   a pretty tight regulation, you see solutions that  will actually help providers and other technology   companies to satisfy that regulation, which is  happening with the prior authorization side,   which is why we are really helpful for those that  don't have fire resources to send it into uh for   a prior authorization. But with deregulation  and pledges, I think in two years if you were   to give me the same interview, you would we would  see some baby steps. And also because there's a

consciousness among patients, I can actually do  a lot with AI. I can I can push hard on my docs.   I can say this is the best treatment. Um and not  always and use western medicine to do that level   of treatment. they they're going to hold a ton  of power and with that power patients are going   to say I have a responsibility to take care of my  health and so I think that's going to move faster   than we even thought especially with chat GTP  health um patients are using Gemini Pro um I use   it I use it all the time and I use a lot it's read  a lot of my reports and I have a lot of questions   for it but also you know my documents about it and  uh definitely going to shape up and I think there   is there's also I mean I've talked to a lot about  this you know as well as that some of the people   who have been dragging their feet getting this  stuff done and you obviously want a solution this   is a media solution for this around the edges you  know this crap in a couple years saying this is  

just fantasy being three or four years in a row  right it's just so I'm I'm hopeful you know and   uh heavily explained about differences but a  joke at the moment you got a joke this is an   area where you know I think there's there's a  lot of consensus around got to get some stuff   done obviously you and I have been doing this  long enough that we remember when when you could   anywhere and now um everyone else is seeing it's  been suing me too we're seeing each other about   we are about data about information blocking  yeah And you know the patients, they don't   care what the pipes look like at the back end.  The docs don't even care. The docs are saying,   "I don't care what you do and what you as a  technology vendor can bring to me. I don't need   to see all the stuff flowing through. I just need  to have information so I can make a more informed   decision and treat my patients the best way and  make money doing it." I mean, look, we're going to  

have some headwinds here where a lot of hospital  systems are going to have to do with uncompensated   care. And I kind of wondered, you know, yours  is a little light this year. And I thought, I   wonder if they're actually just looking at budgets  and they're saying, "Look, we can't give you the   same IT budget that you've had in the past to go  shopping.

We're going to have to shut down service   lines. We're going to have to shut down behavioral  health. We're going to have to shut down women's   health to just manage to all the uncompensated  care that we're going to have to deal with." So,   that's a new world we never thought we'd see.  But I think we got to weather through that too. That is actually time. Thank you, Matthew.