Title: Blue shield drug price check
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=C1epthLSrng
Language: en
Duration: 15:14
Upload Date: Jan 28, 2026

Transcription:

Okay, this is investigative journalism   from Miriam Permore who is very   demanding and wants to know about drug   pricing on the Blue Shield site. So,   first off, let's log into the Blue   Shield site. Nor at this point it tells   me that I've gone to the wrong page and   you have to do some weird work around.   Oh, no, I'm in. Look, there.

 So, now it   wants to know now she wants to know   about drug costs. So, where do you think   we could find this? So let's look at uh   drugs   search on that to do drug formularies.   H   looks wants me to sign in again. Now I   don't know whether that means   uh it's now pointing me to another   formulary.

 Let's see what it let's see   what it says if I sign in. I've already   signed in. So what's it asking for?   Okay, now I'm back on the front page. So   where I was doesn't really help. Okay.   So, let's look at we can find uh   get more   dentist health and wellbeing   understanding healthcare. Okay, I can't   find that.   Uh be well pharmacy. Let's try pharmacy.

  Here we go. Prescription drug. Get the   benefits you need and possible price.   Explore retail pharmacy. You can choose   ammon price check your RX. Here we go.   Look at this. Compare prices.   Let's explore this tool.   Here we go. Uh, watch the video. We'll   just price check my RX flyer.   Well, let's try this.

 No, that literally   is a flyer. Okay. Well, that's not very   helpful. So, uh,   oh, sorry. You're supposed to Why would   they put a box there saying flyer   instead of just making this the box   which is check by RX that gets us? Okay.   So now I'm here benefits connect   pharmacy.   I guess this is where they spent all   their money rather than on the rest of   their IT customer experience.

  Here   it is. You're thinking hard.   All right.   It's telling me my prescription cost and   coverage.   This is very helpful because this is   telling me what my   prescription cost and coverage is based   on my plan.   So, the cheap generics are   at um   57 bucks for a 90-day fill or 19. And by   the way, it's ridiculously expensive.

 I   would never use this because for most of   the drugs I use, the three month rate is   below   $19 from the cost plus pharmacy or   Amazon. Um I haven't looked at tier one   or two.   Um, and now it's only showing me that I   haven't my out of pocket maximum,   which is by the way going to go up. Uh,   is okay.

 Check the price for current new   prescription.   Uh, here it's saying Blue Shield price   can help you find the pharmacy. You   might save money with Amazon Pharmacy.   Well, okay. So, what I know why that's   helping. Let's find ah let's do the   prescription drug. So, let's find think   of a drug that um   think of a drug that I might want to   take.

 I'm going to pause the recording   because I can't think of a drug that I   that I um I'll go and do some search on   drugs and come back with some.   So, let's pick Aloquis.   I know which one I want. Maybe the 2   milligram pack. Here's   what it told me. Um, I'd rather have 90   days supply.   And uh, let me calculate. Oh, it need I   have to select a pharmacy.

  Well, if it's just going to tell me the   Amazon price. What's the point?   So, I guess 165 for 90day   supply. if that's good or bad. Um, let's   go out to Good RX and look, let's go to   cost plus   RX and see what their price for Aloquist   is.   They seem pretty similar given uh   doesn't seem to like that.   All right.

 U [clears throat]   remember what the other one was. So we   were looking at   4 * 0.5 mg soluble   um for 90.   Let's go to   I have 90. Uh   let's move them back to 30 to make them   apples to apples.   Let's close that so you won't click on   it. Um,   so the Amazon 30 is 55, which is rather   less than it was for sell it was to 90.   So you don't make get much of a   discount.

 Um, and   with uh   look at the list, that's actually not a   bad bad deal. That's actually a lot   cheaper than uh than good rex. So, well   done them. I wonder if Mark Cuban does   that.   It's making me sign in.   I haven't bought any drugs from them in   a while. Although I have   see what atmosphere I put in other maybe   it's a brand   not seem interested in that.

  Um   it's looking for a particular type   prescription. Oh I can browse   medications on the wrong page. Let's try   that.   does not like I guess it can't do it   because it's not generic. All right,   [clears throat]   let's uh go back and do this whole thing   for a different   drug. Oh no, I've lost how I got here.

  Price checking my RX. No, where was   this? There we go. Uh let's do something   I am taking which is pretty cheap.   Uh   let's compare it to Mark Cuban. Uh   let's take lethar which is a generic   which is a generic blood pressure drug   which I will put on my blood pressure   and see what happens when I hit that.

  There we go.   Let's figure out what I'm doing. So 20.   So let's change to try and make this   apples to apples   90.   Let's change the pharmacy to you have to   select a pharmacy. So,   let's pick CVS,   which for some reason doesn't pick up.   Why would it not pick up?   Maybe I can make it further away.   There's a CVS just down the street from   me. So, I don't know why.

  Oh, maybe doesn't like CVS. Maybe Blue   Shield has now broken up with them.   Let's try Walgreens.   There you go. That's interesting. So,   you can't get at the CVS because they've   broken up with.   Um, why is there a system error?   No, now it's working again.   Here we go. Uh, 30 days   288. You can buy bulk at Amazon for 428.

  Um, I wonder what I actually paid my   last order   at uh, let's put in the card. Let's see   what it is in the card.   And it is 689   uh, at Mark Huban plus the shipping and   mailing. I don't know. So, it might be a   deal for me to get this is for a 90-day   supply   and I can get 428 from Amazon plus   enough to pay the five bucks.

 So maybe   Amazon is coming off the Mark Cuban. I   assume I have to pay them the five bucks   if I have Amazon Prime, which I do   um for the 90-day supply, even though I   search for the 30-day supply. Anyway, so   you know, probably for generics, it's   it's it's pretty good. Let's go find um   something that's expensive.

  What if we just check the brand version   of this? I don't know what that will be.   See how much more the brand version of   this common blood pressure medication is   it's been on generic I think for a while   so shouldn't be too   expensive what it thinks about it.   Let's give it a go. Let's see what   happens if I can I order something super   expensive.

  Um,   well, it won't let me order hummetrics   at Mark Cuban because I presume because   it's not generic, although there are bio   similars, so I don't quite know how that   works for expensive medication. Um,   yeah. So, look at this. If you wanted to   do the brand version, it's $102   for 30 days of Walgreens as opposed to   227 for the one I'm on. Okay.

 Um, let's   go back and look at another   drugs. Let's go look at the expensive   drug. Um,   no, nothing like that. Sorry, I don't   mean Humatric. That's the name of the   company I work for. What do I mean?   Humira.   I need an anti- Alzheimer's drug.   doesn't seem like Humera. Let's see if   by the way if I could spell it correctly   on uh   what I mean. Oh, here we go.

 So, here we   go. So, so Mark Cuban does have the bio   similar for Humira. So, let's look up   this first one.   Um let's   pricing is coming up.   So this is a one count supply.   This 526 it thinks it's cheaper.   The hum is not coming up here.   Let's try this page one more time. See   if I can get it to load. humir.   There we go. There's a two pen thing.

  What did I get over here? I got a um   one count supply of 40 mg. So, let's see   what this is.   Uh   80. Let's get the 40 one.   Uh,   calculate [clears throat] the price here   and maybe it'll give me a comparison   with Amazon as well. So, this is $250,   but there's some other versions. I think   this is apples to apples.

  uh   one count by 40 milligrams ucimmery   versus   2. I'm not sure what I'm buying here,   whether these are apples to apples   because this looks too cheap on the wall   side. Let's go back and look at this on   Amazon.   It's sinking hot here.   Yeah, I do find the Oh, it's getting   there.

 The blue cross, the blue shield   side tends to spin a lot on this.   Uh, I'm going change back to Amazon   and see what this says.   It's going to be 3 days supply. Three   month supply.   Um, about the same price, 750 for the 3   days. So, I'm not sure how this   compares. I'm buying the same thing as I   am buying on on Cuba, but it does look   it might be cheaper.

 So, uh I hope   Miriam that that is enough and you   understand what all this is about and   see you can tell me whether you think   Blue Shield has done a good job here or   not. Um there are many other aspects of   Blue Shield which need a lot of work.   So, I'm not sure this was the one they   needed to fix first, but maybe it's what   they decided to do. Bye for now.



