Title: Boulder Care: Stephanie Strong & Marianna Zaslavsky


URL: Boulder Care: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gHpnP9uZc1M
Language: en
Duration: 00:24:44
Upload Date: Sep 30, 2025

Transcription:

[Music] Okay, Matthew Holt with THCB on the TCB spotlight and I'm here with one of my favorite uh companies in the mental health substance abuse space and one of my favorite CEOs with one of my new team members. Okay, this is Stephanie Strong, CEO of Boulder and Mariana Zazleski. I hope I didn't murder your last name, Mariana, too much or your first name.

Um, who has just joined Boulder. So, uh, let's catch up. Stephanie, there people watching this who don't know what the hell Boulder is, what it does, what's wrong with substance abuse in the first place, and how you're dealing with it. So, go on, tell us where Boulder is, and let's quickly catch up on what you've been doing.

It's great to see you, Matthew. Thank you for having us. Uh, I'm Stephanie Strong, the founder and CEO of Boulder Care. And Boulder is a provider of high quality addiction medicine overall health, um, treating people with opioid and alcohol use disorders and co-occurring conditions. Um, we've seen over 30,000 patients now and with outcomes more than three times better than the national average.

We're really proud of these extraordinary outcomes, particularly for the people we treat who tend to be low income, struggling with a lot of social needs and covered by Medicaid, which I think we'll talk a lot about today. So, thrilled to be here and and share some updates on the company. And an update we're incredibly excited about is welcoming Mariana to our team in the last 90 days.

Brilliant. So, uh, just before we get to Mariana, just remind people a lot of this has to do with prescribing of of medications to combat opioid, um, use disorder. Uh, so tell us a little bit about that and tell us a little bit about what you personally and Boulder did about that issue regarding prescriptions over of those medications over tellahalth in recent months and years.

can share that uh prescribing medications and helping people get access to evidence-based treatments is core to what we do. Um medications cut the risk of overdose by half or more. They help people uh regain their quality of life and are very significantly underutilized. a lot of um difficulties in prescribing medications, lack of access to specialty providers nationwide, particularly in rural areas, and a lot of stigma and misperceptions about using medication to treat addiction and the long-term chronic nature of this disease. So, for years,

Boulder has not only been making access to these medicines more um accessible and evidence-based, we've also been doing a lot of advocacy and education so that we can bring the rest of the industry along to the best science for people who need care. And that includes changing policies as well. So we advocated fiercely for patients um beginning in 2023 when after COVID there has been a lot of back and forth uh from regulators about tellaalth and a permanent framework for making medications available when we learned

during COVID that not only is tele medicine safe and effective in many ways it's actually better than the status quo for people who have struggled to get access and stay in treatment and so working to change policies to align with the modern science and what we know about about this condition. Um making tellaalth a permanent part of how people are getting this care and now advocating for um changes on the horizon in Medicaid to make sure that people with substance use continue to get access whether in person or through teleaalth

um without disruption to their benefits. Fantastic. And I that was an excellent you you spearheaded what I think was just a common sense excellent campaign when the DEA was suggesting that you know tellahalth and and other it would be hard to describe those those substances somehow lumping the stuff that you know helps people in with the stuff that hurts people is not great but we know that and this and this was prior to the Trump administration so we can't blame it all on them. All right.

All right. Um Mariana, you've been in a number of digital health companies and now including uh recently in uh uh groups, right, which is a a different flavor of mental health. Tell us a little bit about your background, bit about what you've been doing and a little bit about why did you come join Stephanie. Yeah, so happy to be here.

I heard a lot about you and I'm very honored to have this conversation. Um so I am currently leading our commercial strategy and our growth partnerships at Boulder. Uh so that includes valuebased contracting, new market expansion, and payer success. Uh I've been doing a lot of this kind of work for a long time as you recognized uh Matt, uh with about six years focused specifically on managed care and Medicaid.

Um so as you correctly noted, uh most recently I led value-based market growth at groups to cover together. I launched a number of new geographies there, all under value based arrangements. So, I I really do love working with payer partners, figuring out complex uh uh uh sort of contract structures and agreements to align our incentives.

Um and uh outpatient SUD care is still highly highly underutilized. So, that's why I continue to invest myself and and this and my time into this space. Uh but specifically I joined Boulder because uh there's just so many so many wonderful things and so many unique things about Boulder but specifically patient first harm reduction philosophy is just an absolute must in my opinion in this space but also the ability to deliver sameday access to medication measurable cost of care outcomes and a truly comprehensive clinical model. It's just

rare in my opinion uh to find that depth of care and performance in one place. So, I'm really excited to be uh to be here. Fabulous. Um, so the obvious question is, you know, Stephanie's doing been doing a wonderful job. Boulder's been growing all what what if not quite why do they need you, but where are the opportunities that you think that you can take bowler to that you and the rest of the team can take bowler to that not, you know, that that are coming up? Is this to do with the change in Medicaid? Is it to do with

getting more access to value? what what do you look at and say okay here are the things where we can really move the needle for patients in these areas value based care is still highly underutilized I think in general and no one would disagree with that but specifically within behavioral health and then even more specifically within the world of substance use disorder treatment and that's really my area of specialty um and so I think there's just so much for us to to do there and deepen our partnerships with our payer partners

by using value-based arrangements as a mechanism to do that that to me creates a virtuous cycle Because if you can go deeper with your payer partners as a provider and you can really become a strategic tool in their toolkit, you can help those payer partners become even more valuable to their state partners.

And then all the work that we're doing on the ground uh in working with our state agency partners all the way down to local community organizations. All of that becomes a a one big feedback loop where you are focused from multiple directions on improving the lives of our communities and the people who are struggling with Sud.

So for me that's like that's my shining light. That's why I wake up every morning. That's why I love valuebased care and I love the application of it in this space. And I think in general we all have a lot more room to grow there. And so I'll speak for you know the Boulder perspective there. We also have a lot more room to grow there and deepening our partnerships with our payer partners and getting more sophisticated but then also entering new states in that value based paradigm and saying from day one how do we become a strategic partner and how do

we deliver value at that level from day one when we enter a new market. So that's the bulk of my work right now at Boulder. Fantastic. What uh I know which one of you wants to take this. Uh Stephanie remind me where you are in the state of play of how many states you have now. How many patients under or potential covered lives or patients however have you measure your activity? Um you know how that how's that grown over the last few years and and uh then let's sort of flip this and maybe you could both answer this or one you could take one

part one one take the other. What is the sort of state of mind of states but also the managed care plans who are you know basically delivering the Medicaid services that we're talking about in terms of this kind of new new approach. So where are we? Where do you think the clients are going to take it is basically the question.

Yeah, like I I'll take part one and then let Mariana talk about where where health plans are. Uh and it's been incredible over the last few years the growth um year after year in kind of geography and in our patient base. Um we're now in five states and very deep in those states. Uh Mariana referenced community partners.

We work closely with healthcare providers to make sure that we can offer continuity and bring people from hospitals, emergency departments or the justice system into care very quickly, which is such a benefit of tellahalth. And we also really look to connect culturally um with local uh peers who are part of our team and understand what people are going through in that place at that time in that language and then the collaboration that happens at the national level.

What are you seeing in your drug supply? well, we dealt with, you know, fentanyl and crowd over here and this is what we've seen and how that might evolve and a lot of education and community on our provider workforce as well. So, that's been a really special part of the trajectory and we've more than doubled our patient base every year um and more than doubled our number of health plan partners under value based arrangements as well just in the last couple of quarters.

So growing quickly and as we have these deep partnerships with uh some of the plans that really dominate the national landscape and are pulling us into new states asking us what more we can do and most recently asking how will you be the strategic partner that will help us weather the storms that are coming in the the broader macro landscape in such an amazing time to welcome Mariana.

You know she mentioned that we're relatively new as a country to valuebased contracting particularly in behavioral health and in Medicaid. So to find someone like Mariana who's been doing this for many years and has a perspective to marry with ours and a real strategy and trusted relationships with plan partners is kind of a match made in heaven from our perspective.

But I'll let Mariana share a bit more about what she's learned and continues to learn and spending time with plans um and where we can go next as we look ahead. Yeah. So something that uh as I was doing my own diligence in in considering joining Boulder, I I spoke to a number of payer partners and I said, "What do you think of Boulder?" and I heard only great things, which is part of the reason why I came over.

But I will say now that I've been in the role for 90 days and I have met with all of our payer partners, I continue to hear great things, which I think is incredibly validating to to start off there, Matt, to answer your second question, there is more room for us to grow and to deepen and do all the things that I said that I want to do with our payer partners despite some of the headwinds that are happening in Medicaid.

Um, and I think a couple of sort of like grounding principles there are sort of why in my opinion, you know, there is going to need there is going to be a continued need to serve members with SUD uh under Medicaid and that's where most of the lives are today. Um, and so that's just it is what it is. So it is a population that's going to continue to necessitate uh thoughtfulness uh consideration, investment from our uh our MCO partners, but also the states, right? the state partners that are and their state regulators. So it becomes this very kind

of unique and interesting population where there's so much opportunity and so much attention from multiple uh perspectives. It's not it and it it doesn't just become like you know oh is this the most expensive line item and how do we use value based care to decrease the cost like yes that's an element but there's also because of the impact ultimately this disease has on communities state costs recidivism the justice system work right getting people in back into work and the labor supply there is in my opinion so much

opportunity for us us as a provider or our MCO partners, our states, so on so forth to continue investing in this population in this space. So I'm very bullish on this space overall. That to say one thing. Um I think the other thing that makes it really sort of uh great to do my job at Boulder uh with our Medicaid partners is in particular with some of the headwinds that are coming uh for really for all of us who operate in the Medicaid space.

um to be able to work for uh an organization that is highly scalable, going to be available in the markets that we're in today and in new markets, no matter what those henwoods are, no matter what those local supply disruptions might be um within that particular market. That's what makes Boulder so unique is its ability to provide access uh not only throughout that state but again go into new markets um with a great uh uh deal of efficiency.

Um and then I think the other thing that's really interesting about where Boulder's role in the coming future here again is specifically thinking about where Medicaid might be heading. We've had a wrap we've had a a model that uh supports wraparound care and invests in wraparound care since day one.

That means work requirements are a part of what and and and eligibility and helping our members get back on their feet not just on work but in all aspects of life is core to what we do. So I think that's going to become a key component of our success not only with our members but with our MCO partners because that's that's not a job they can do alone.

They're going to need providers and community stakeholders to help them with that. Um and then the last couple points there is I think um you know valuebased care. What's really kind of great about it in this world of of budget cuts and and tightening is that it does provide line of sight and budget stabilization for the SUD population.

The more folks that are in our care, the more line of sight that MCOs's have to the costs of this population, but also the clinical outcomes of this population. We retain folks at a a two to three time rate than the rest of the industry. We know that the utilization of high-cost settings like uh the ED, inpatient, residential just trend downwards almost immediately after the first couple of months.

So, it's budgetary stabilization, line of sight, and lower admin costs, candidly, because we're not fee for service, we're not churning, we're not submitting thousands and thousands of claims. So um I think it's a really great place to be um for for us as an organization and and you know obviously for me personally um I I continue to believe in this space and this work.

So it uh makes sense for the uh for the for the for the managed care organizations doing this. Um let's let's uh scratch the uh the thing that we've all been dancing around which is you know with the big beautiful bill act what hell it's called um we're going to see you know obviously states both losing federal funds and losing matching fund in matching funds um and also you know cutting their own uh roles in in Medicaid there will be work requirements there will be a bunch of other things going on what do you think the impact on

the population that you're serving is people with sud who who've been you know at the forefront you mentioned many of them have obviously you if you like marginal marginal marginal you know hold on things like housing and work and all the rest of it. What what do you think is going to happen to those people and and what's going to happen to Boulder? Steph, do you want me to take that one? I'm happy to, but if you want to jump in, feel free.

You want to start? That'd be great. Yeah. Um, I think, uh, you know, going back to another piece that drew me to Boulder is while certainly we serve mostly Medicaid folks, we do serve all lines of business, and that's intentional. We do contract across all lines of business. We are also grant funded in many of our states.

We also have self-pay programs. That's all to say that we are prepared to serve this population no matter sort of like where they might go in terms of their insurance coverage. And I think that's a really, really critical piece there. Will there be enrollment churn? I like of course, right? I think that we saw that during redetermination and I think the I'll let Stephanie speak to that period of time, but I can tell you in my experience, we work through it.

You know, we find the way to meet this population where they are with the type of insurance that they have. Um, and so I believe that that'll be the case for us going forward. But maybe Steph, maybe you can pick up on um some perspectives there and then some additional thoughts that you might have. That's exactly right.

Startups are resilient, especially those like Boulder built for Medicaid during the last several years where there hasn't been a year that hasn't brought unexpected macro changes. Our patients are even more resilient. The resourcefulness um ingenuity. I mean, we have folks who are without phones except for an hour a day and that's when they come to their visit every time and they've done that for three years with five kids and two jobs.

And it kills me to hear some of the talking points in the the media about, you know, patients, people on Medicaid sitting on their parents' couch playing video games when we're trying to impose work requirements on the hardest working people you can imagine. And so they will continue um getting their substance use treatment through Boulder and we will continue finding ways to solve their problems.

Whether that's more flexible hours so they can take visits in early mornings and and evenings around their other responsibilities, whether that's offering better tools and support for eligibility as we did during Medicaid redetermination when health plans leaned on us to communicate changes to their members because we're talking with them daily.

Um, and that's always been a real challenge for plans or perhaps uh some of the work we're doing in advocacy to help uh make sure that SUD is carved out of some of these provisions and won't be as affected by the bill because we know as Mariana said it's such a high priority for so many states including very deep red states and communities where um we've seen this problem be one of the top political issues.

So, there's a lot to do, but we're um we're committed in doubling down to serve this population. And in many ways, I think this is just an acceleration of the trends that we were built for. We've known for some time that Medicaid uh is um a place that needs innovation. It needs technology to help um with efficiency and cost savings that can be linked to real outcomes.

Addiction medicine in the same ways needs reform. And that's why Boulder exists. There are providers that are not actually resulting in great outcomes and people are cycling through detox facilities and residential and inpatient stays that are unnecessary and expensive and poor experiences for our patients. Uh so accelerating value based care, acceler accelerating the accountability that addiction providers like Boulder experience with plans in order to get reimburseed for outcomes.

Those are trends we can be really excited about. And I wish that um you know wasn't happening in a way that was so um sort of linked to old paradigms like work requirements, things we know don't work and actually raise costs. Um, so we'll try to be a driving force in the industry change, bringing down costs, improving outcomes and quality, being more efficient with our precious resources, but in new ways that technology and evidence can support rather than the things that we've tried 10, 20, 30 years um at a time.

So, uh, on that note, because you wouldn't you wouldn't be here if you weren't starting another campaign, talk to tell me about, uh, the the campaign that you're now in the in in leadership of again, which is called Majority for Medicaid. Um, what are you what are you what are you what are you doing? What are you hoping to do? What's how can we all get involved? Yes.

The Majority for Medicaid campaign is a grassroots and advocacy campaign. We've been spearheading with um over 40 other um digital health organizations that are focused in serving Medicaid beneficiaries across multiple specialties from um women's health and primary care to uh youth and substance use disorder like Boulder. We've all been working in the space and see opportunities for innovation and change that accomplish a lot of the national goals, but in a way that takes care of patients and recognizes the profound importance of investing in people's

health, for the economy, for our workforce, for the future generations uh of people who are supported by Medicaid. And we're sharing these stories from our patients, from our staff, um, and others in industry who are participating to help just talk about the benefits of Medicaid and raise awareness. We actually know that a lot of Americans who are covered by Medicaid um, don't even realize that that's their plan as we're hearing so much in the headlines about cuts and changes.

So we want to empower voters with the understanding that this affects their lives and over the next couple of years there will be some major changes that they can help stop by reaching out to their elected officials. Um similarly we are um we know that 50% of the electorate is affected whether through their own coverage or a loved one.

This is a really important issue. So awareness is key and that the majority of Americans support Medicaid um and think it's a really vital program to continue funding. So we're bringing together voices from really all walks of life, all political parties to uh put forth ideas and solutions that don't involve blanket cuts and can help us get to more efficiency without losing coverage for people who need care most.

Uh sounds great. Uh how do you how do how do people get involved? How do they find out more about what you're actually doing? Where are these stories being sold? Shared, sorry. Yep. We so using the hashtag majjority formed medicaid you can see some of the stories just in the last couple of weeks shared um from over 10 organizations as well as ours people who rely on Medicaid and uh have now um over the course of multiple years um seen the benefits of having uh Medicaid when they were children pay for their life-saving

surgeries or helping them to deliver their child and uh now have a healthy baby. Um, so reading these stories, sharing your own is a way to really engage with some of the human impact um, of this program. And there's also a link to uh, very easily text your elected officials and let them know that you support uh, these policies and need their representation in Congress to come up with reasonable and pragmatic solutions.

You can text majority to 5049 to send a policy letter to your representatives expressing concern um and raising awareness about these issues. Yeah, I'll I'll just add I've already done that and my two Democratic senators probably probably were on board anyway, but thank thanks thanks to states. Sorry, Marian. Oh, no. I didn't mean to cut in.

I I was just saying uh I I also uh I put I shared my own story first of all. Um, and I think that that's also an important piece of this campaign is um sharing stories for those who were on Medicaid uh at some point in their life or still are and how that's um really important as Stephanie said. So that's one. Two, uh texting was super easy.

I just wanted to mention that. Um I was thrilled to receive responses back from my uh representatives uh even though again Matt I think yes Democratic representatives probably obvious that they were going to respond well. Um and then the other thing is uh it was Medicaid's 60th anniversary um just a couple of days ago on on July 30th.

So uh there is a campaign around uh the anniversary as well. So it's a big milestone. Yeah. My my idea that it should be abolished is not quite what what you think I'm saying. But if we're going to have a separate program that's an aid program smashing stuff up here that's an that's an aid program rather than a care program.

uh let's let's let's think about doing it sensibly. Um I'm not sure that's possible in the current way we do it, but we can certainly do it better. So that's fantastic. But I I I think it's great that you know again you guys taking and particularly you Stephanie taking time out from you know the hell that is running a startup every day to actually think about these wider issues.

I'm very proud of you for doing that and uh and very happy to support. So uh that is your update on Boulderare. be speaking with a relatively new head of partnerships, Mariana Zazki. God, I will have to screw up your name a few more times before I get it right. And Stephanie Strong, the CEO. Uh, both of you. Thanks for coming on THCV.

Thank you so much, Matthew. Great to see you. Thank you so much. Great to meet you.
