Title: Carta Healthcare - AI for Registry Creation
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oYu37qC4LV0
Language: en
Duration: 41:23
Upload Date: Feb 9, 2026

Transcription:


Matthew Halt here. Another TTV spotlight   and I have with me two gents from Carter   Healthcare. They both got their fancy   backgrounds to Skype. So Skype, God, I'm   back in the back in the days when I met   Jared   Zoom. Um, which uh, wow. How how did my   brain go there? The the interesting   thing in late Alzheimer's.

 Anyway, so   Carter Healthcare, I have Greg Miller   who's who runs marketing and Jared Kre   Jared Kre who runs product at Carter.   Um, Carter Healthcare is in the business   of helping with registry creation. Um,   so let's start right at the beginning,   Greg. Uh, what the hell is a registry   and why I want to create one? And then   we'll get to figure out what you   actually do.

 But registries are a big   and important business in healthcare.   But what are they?   >> Yeah. I mean in the simplest terms a   registry is a database. It's a database   that is aggregated from um participating   hospitals. Um some registries are man   are mandated by the federal government   like CMS core measures for example and   many of them are voluntary meaning   sponsored by the medical societies like   the American College of Cardiology.

 And   so hospitals um collect this data and   submit it to the registry body so they   can then use the outpart output um   comparing hospitals nationwide um as   well as better understand quality   benchmarks and scores um to help quality   and process improvement efforts. That's   ultimately the goal is to help improve   quality patient safety and and improve   processes.

  >> So a lot of this is for sort of quality   scoring and obviously a number of   different bodies that are uh looking at   hospital quality. There's uh I hear a   lot about registries of patients being   created for things like clinical trials   as well. Is that is that basically the   same thing uh same issue or or is or is   it is that different   >> conceptually I mean if you really at the   end of the day a registry is a database   of and I would say more from a   population level um that that is the   important part. So if you need to   aggregate um a list of patients for   matching them to a clinical trial that   is an example of of essentially what a   registry would be the result of   >> right so let's talk about the scale of   what's happening now or pre you know   pre-CO I know there was obviously there   is Carter and you're in that business   but you'll talk a bit about how how   you've ch how you're changing it but uh   what is the scale of sort of registry   collection how many hospitals how many   people are involved how many registries   are there give give me a sort of sense   of what's the sort of size of the   problem we're dealing with.

  >> Yeah. Um so the um there are a number of   federally mandated and state mandated.   So you have the National Cancer   Institute, you have CMS, every state   it's mandatory to submit your uh CA to   the cancer registry as an example. Um   but again there's many medical   societies. It could be stroke, trauma,   American heart association, run down the   list.

 So there's roughly 400 other types   of registries that are commonly um uh   participated in by by hospitals and   health systems. So really this this   issue of registry creation is universal.   It happens in every hospital across the   country. Um and it's also a global   issue. Um so it's not just the United   States that collects this data for   quality purposes.

  >> And ballpark how many people how much   money is spent? How how big how big an   effort from an average they're doing a   lot of other look at data right they're   looking they're building stuff for   coding and there's doing they're doing   all different types for getting payment   and obviously doing other types of of of   things for research so bullpark what's   the scale of effort here   >> so at the um at the highest level health   systems in the United States spend   between 10 and 15 billion dollars a year   um manually collecting data to submit to   the registry bodies   >> all right then what is the what what's   the the sort of the the individual? So,   I'm sitting there and I'm a coder. I   assume I'm a coder or some kind of some   kind of uh person, you know, specialist   within a hospital doing that.   >> What level of what level of of how much   how long does it take me to fill in a   typical registry questionnaire? What am   I doing?   >> I would say on average um again the the   amount of time completely depends on

  which registry it is and how complicated   the case is. Sure. But on average, if   you look across all uh registries for a   sort of normal or average case, it takes   about an hour. And that's a human that   is doing that work. And what they're   doing is they are on this screen over   here.

 I have epicenter or meditech or HR   desour   it is a usually a nurse. Um however, you   have physicians that are doing   abstraction work. You have   profusionists. You have lots of   different types of clinicians depending   upon the case type. Anyway, long story   short, there's over here I've got the   EHR and over here I've got this registry   system and in the registry system there   are a list of questions.

 There could be   50 questions, it could be a thousand   questions that are very very specific.   Um many of these questions can be yes no   answers. Um and so what the today's   world before Carter healthcare what's   happening is they're go diving you see   this registry question over here they're   diving into the EHR going through many   different documents in on in the   patient's record to try to then make a   clinical inference as to whether this   patient you know do I answer yes or no   over here in the in the registry system   nowhere in the EHR does it say is it   going to answer yes or no um so it's   this process of us of a clinician um   really understanding the um the the   context of the question and where to go   in the HR to find the data and it could   also be coming from ambulatory sources   as well. And so in today's world, you   know, while it is largely nurses that   are that are doing this work, um many of   them are still taking care of patients

  every single day too. And so you have   you'll have a combination of people that   are 100% dedicated to doing clinical   data abstraction and then you'll have a   lot of nurses that are doing it as part   of their you know an adjunct to their   day job if you will which is actually   trying to take care of patients   >> right and then uh the obvious thing and   we'll get to to Jared's going to show us   how it actually works in a second.

 The   obvious thing is there's this new whole   development called uh artificial   intelligence or something you may have   heard of, we may have heard of, but   there have been people doing kind of NLP   and natural language recognition stuff   and trying to abstract from charts for   for a long time.

 Give me a little bit of   the background about how Carter got to   where it is. See what that we'll see   what is after this question, but   >> it's a good question. Um, so, uh, we've   actually been in the business of   applying AI to the challenge of clinical   data abstraction since 2017. And we   we're an outgrowth of a project at   Stanford Children's Hospital, um, going   back to 2016 where our founder was was   put on a project at Stanford Kids trying   to understand supply utilization in the   O. So, nothing to do with registries.

  And it took him 18 months to gather the   data that he needed in order to support   that project. And he thought that was   nuts. but he happened to have a computer   computer science undergrad degree from   Stanford. he wrote an algorithm that   could automatically um abstract that or   extract that data and there had just   happened to be a PI at Stanford kids   that saw what he had done and said hey   you know this might work really well   from for registries and um that started   us down the path and then the American   college of cardiology made a initial   investment in card healthcare and that's   how we were born um and so today we work   with all kinds of hospitals and health   systems academic standalone community   hospitals large multi-state multi-anity   health systems like a common spirit or a   life point. Um because again the the   challenge is universal. It's every   hospital in the country.   >> And then how much did this uh thing you   may have heard of called MLMs that shut   up in 2022 that change what you were   doing or was it pretty much you know   >> it's a good question.   >> Same.   >> So I I lovingly refer to the AI that we

  started with as being um old school AI.   um and it was natural language   processing um and machine learning and   we would get probably about 20% maybe of   the questions answered and then the rest   of the work would be done by our   clinical staff um you know to complete   the uh the registry questions.

 So um   fast forward to the end of 22 when LLM   became commercially viable um for   companies like us to adopt um we   reinvented our entire platform and the   results have been just absolutely   amazing. Um, and you may have seen an   announcement while we were at JP Morgan   a couple weeks ago. Um, Enthropic uh   announced Claude for healthcare and the   underlying um our underlying AI platform   is Claude and we've had just tremendous   results with with cloud for for registry   specifically.

  >> That's fantastic. So Jared, uh, let's   show let's fire it up and show us what   it actually looks like. So you're   sitting there as a as an expensive nurse   answering these questions. It's taking   you a long time.   What what what are they looking at? The   product is called Lighthouse. Take take   it from there.

  >> Yeah. So, Lighthouse is our product   which is an abstraction assistant. It's   designed to help an abstractor be more   efficient and more accurate in their   work. And Lighthouse supports many   registries. The one we're going to look   at today is called Cath PCI. This is for   uh uh coronary perccutaneous   interventions.

 So, if you need if you   have a heart attack and you go to the   hospital and you need a stent and   instead of cracking your chest open,   they decide they're going to put a   catheter in your femoral artery and put   the stent in your heart so they don't   have to saw you open. After that   procedure is all over, a nurse is going   to submit some data about that procedure   to this registry.

 And so, we have a   patient here. If I'm the nurse who's   doing, as Greg was describing, I've got   my electronic health record over here.   I've got the web page from the um from   the uh registry open and it's got all   the questions. I'm going to use   Lighthouse to help us answer these   questions.

 So, let's look at our patient   who's named Larry Becker. Once I select   the patient, the first thing that I see   is an AI generated summary of this   patient's condition. This helps me get   oriented to what I'm looking at and   helps make me make sure that this case   is actually eligible to be submitted to   the registry because each registry has   different eligibility requirements.

 So I   can look at that case summary. Then over   here on the left hand side we've got a   section of questions. These are the   correspond to the questions that I'm   going to see on the form I got to fill   out. And so if I choose a section of the   questions here, then it will take me in   Lighthouse to these questions and   they'll match up exactly with the form I   need to fill out.

 And here you will see   uh how Lighthouse AI finds answers to   questions and shows them to an   abstractor. So we'll choose a simple   example to start with so you can kind of   see how it works. So there's a question   here that asks, does the patient have   dysipidemia? That's clinical speak for   do they have high cholesterol?   The answer needs to be yes or no.

 And   the AI is saying the answer we think is   yes. And then it tells you why it thinks   the answer. So the black text here which   was generated by the AI says patient has   a history of coronary artery disease and   they're taking a statin. People who take   statins probably have high cholesterol.   Then it shows in orange a couple of   citations from the patient chart.

 And if   I click on that, it will show me right   inside of Lighthouse documents from the   EHR   that support   this justification for this answer to   the question. So I as the abstractor   instead of having to go look at every   single history and physical note and   look at their problem list and their   diagnosis list to find out if they have   high cholesterol, Lighthouse finds the   documents.

 I can quickly review them and   confirm that it's correct. And now I can   with confidence say yes. I'm going to   answer this question. Does the patient   have dysipidemia? Yes.   So that's kind of a simple example.   Let's maybe look at a couple more that   uh are a little bit more complicated.   Uh let's come down here and look at this   question which asks does this patient   have a family history of premature   coronary artery disease? And if I'm an   abstractor doing this work, it turns out   the registry that is asking this   question has some guidelines for me   about what qualifies as premature   coronary artery disease.   If you don't have Lighthouse, you've got   a big PDF that you have on the side of   your desk and you alt tab over to that   thing and you find the PDF and you   scroll down to this question and you   find what the guidance is. We   >> embed doing your taxes, right? you have

  like a simple form to fill in, but   >> the instruction form is seven pages long   and you're going, "Okay,   >> that's exactly   >> that's why we have a Turboax."   >> That's exactly what it's like. And so in   Lighthouse, we make that easier by   embedding those guidelines right inside   the product.

 So I can see right here,   this registry says,   you can answer this question. Yes, if   they have a blood relative who's male   and had one of these five coronary art   uh heart diseases before they were age   55, but if the blood relative's female,   then it only counts if they had one of   these before they were age 65. So, very   specific guidance about what's required   in order to answer this question. Yes.

  And   this could be documented at any point in   the patient's chart. If you've been   seeing the patient for 20 years and I'm   the nurse who's got answer this   question, I got to go look at 20 years   worth of history and physical notes to   find out if any one of them mentioned a   blood relative who had coronary artery   disease.

 Lighthouse makes that way   faster and way easier. So again, it's   saying the answer should be no, but I   found a citation in the patient's chart   that said their father had quadruple   bypass at age 55. Why is it saying the   answer is no? Well, because the criteria   are for men who are blood relatives,   they have to have been younger than 55   in order to answer yes.

 And I can click   on that orange thing and go see in the   chart.   Here's two H&P notes   where it's documented that the father   had a coronary artery bypass surgery at   age 55. This just saved me 15 minutes of   sifting through Epic trying to find any   mention anywhere of a blood relative   with coronary artery disease.   >> And is there a way? So, but this one   then then this is tricky, right? Because   if you had the by if the guy had the   bypass at his father had the bypass at   55, probably had the disease before 55,   right? You're out of the line there. I   noticed there was a mark incorrect   button. Is that uh so you say no, but I   mean might might you go it might be a   reasonable thing and let's not go to say   well actually you must have had it   already by that stage. So actually it's   not in it's not a no. It's a so although   the AI is accurate maybe I as a human in

  the loop side of the AI is wrong here.   It's not hallucinating, but but I guess   this question is   >> you're a smart nurse and you're like,   well, I find it documented in the   patient chart that the father had   coronary art disease before 55. Maybe I   should answer this. Yes. And I will want   to give feedback to Carta that the AI   got this answer wrong and I'll mark this   incorrect.

 So,   >> yeah, but I'm not sure the AI actually   got it wrong, but on the other hand,   logic dictates that, you know, you don't   get you don't have you don't have a   cabbage A5, you're completely fine with   54. I would guess I who knows   >> but for the guidelines for this thing it   has to be documented in the chart that   the father had corn did they have it   probably was it documented in this   patient's chart we couldn't find it and   so therefore the answer   >> that's that's uh so yes so obviously so   the AI is correct um in this okay   interesting   even though in in probably not correct   you know in reality it was probably the   guy probably already had anyway by the   way   >> no but Matthew you're illustrating a   really important point which is um we   employ what we refer to as a hybrid   intelligence approach which is it's you   know the AI can go so far and we all   know that AI is not 100% foolproof right   um and so these questions are so   specific you need to understand the   clinical context of the type of patient

  the rules and also what the question is   really asking and then where to go find   that and then at the end of the day none   of the registry bodies let you   automatically submit you and let the AI   populate the registry form. They want a   clinician to validate the AI results.   >> So they're actually still making the the   nurse the patient physically fill in the   other web.

 So they still another screen   open where they're having. So the answer   is yes, but it's not appearing in the   questionnaire yet,   >> right? for this. Is that is that coming   or do you have to have a long   negotiation with them about you know   because theoretically even if it did   automatically pop in uh automatically   fill it out like uh you know ambient   scribing does for the notes   >> sure   >> somebody has to sign off right in the   end there is   >> right   >> somebody has to sign off and if you   really think about the downstream impact   of a wrong answer if you're submitting   wrong answers to the registry body and   everybody else is too the d the quality   data that's coming back is going to be   garbage. You know, the whole garbage in,   garbage out thing.   >> And so, um, uh, we're very much focused   on keeping the clinician in the loop.   >> This just saves them   >> so much time. And, um, for those nurses   that are doing abstraction work and also   taking care of patients, it gives them   more time to go back to the bedside.

  >> Yeah. Yeah. Ballpark, what are you what   are you saying? I mean, I think you   mentioned before before you got to the   LMS, you were saving 20% of the time.   ballpark what are you saving of the of   the time of sort of the chart read and   all the rest. I mean Jared just said   that one thing saved 15 minutes and you   check it up and you know if that 15   minutes is gone and it was the whole   thing was an hour or an hour or two and   that was a complicated question and I   can imagine you're saving a lot of time.   >> Yeah, maybe I could just give you a   quick example. Um, one of our customers,   um, there was an abstractor who, um,   abstracts specifically for the Nisquip   registry, which is a surgical registry,   um, across, uh, 14 hospitals and 22,000   cases annually. And, um, you know, she   had been she's been doing abstraction   work for 35 years. She's a very   experienced nurse. Um, when she first   heard about that their health system was   going to adopt Lighthouse, she was   really nervous about it. She said, you   know, basically in her mind's eye, she   was like, "How could technology be   better than me? I've been doing this for

  across thousands of cases for 35 years."   >> So, she's the opposite of me. I'm   looking forward to the robot having to   replace me, but go on.   >> So, she um at first was really skeptical   about using it. But as she started to   use it, there was a there was a key sort   of tipping point for her, which was she   started to notice that Lighthouse was   picking up things she would have missed.

  And you know when Jared talks about you   know having to go back 20 years of   history of documentation to answer a   question that's real. And so Lighthouse   is picking up things that she would have   missed and then she started to trust it,   trust it, trust it. Now she's 100%   allin.

 And for her um for for normal   cases, if you will, um she reduced the   time by um up to a third to a half of   her time. um for complex cases that used   to take five or six hours, it's saving   there. She's down to like 60 to 90   minutes. Um so it's it's dramatic and   she also takes care of patients. So now   she could she can take care of the   patients that she uh that she needs to   see as well.

  >> I'm actually surprised it's not more um   another example, another quick example.   So, another abstractor I was talking to   who uh does abstraction work in South   Florida and she uh used to see a lot of   um heart attack victims from cruise   ships in South Florida. And so um   there's a there's a key data element   that's part of the registry um is   wanted.

 It's a time stamp for when a   clout   clout busting Jud drug would be ad   started administration and it's a really   key piece of information. It used to   take take her 20 minutes per case just   to find that that one data element. And   with Lighthouse, it was instant. So 20   minutes to zero. Um and so and she's   ecstatic.

 Um same kind of scenario like   I was nervous about using this AI thing.   Um but I'm still you know in the loop   and uh just make and what they will all   tell you is it makes them better. Um in   fact the the first abstractor I talked   about there's a there's a metric in the   abstraction world called in iterator   reliability.

 Basically it's it's a test   to on data quality. And so um we measure   uh at card healthcare we have an we have   a standard of 98 to 99% irr in certain   types of cases um it's 100% meaning you   have if you take what was the AI came up   with and what an experienced abstractor   came up with are they the same things   and um it's 100%.

 And so in other cases,   you know, there like this one, the first   abstractor I mentioned, her her running   average for IRRs was 99.1%.   And with Lighthouse, she's up to 99.4%.   So it's it's just making her better and   making her job a whole lot easier.   >> Sounds it sounds I mean sounds, you   know, obvious now, doesn't it? So while   we're doing that, Jared was moving on to   something else, which was looking at   diabetes.

 So Jared, what what are you   going to show us now?   >> Yeah. So if any of you have you used uh   Chad GPT or Claude or Gemini, you know   that sometimes they're very eager to   give an answer that sounds plausible but   which is very incorrect.   >> That's they're getting better. I will   say that offense.   >> They're absolutely getting better.

 But   where that might just be inconvenient   for you or I for the simple questions   that we ask to chat GPT or Claude for an   abstractor doing this work that's the   worst. And so we've done a lot of work   in our system to make sure that when   there is conflicting evidence or when   the AI is not sure that it presents both   possible answers with the evidence that   supports each case.

 And this is a simple   example of that for diabetes. Does the   patient have diabetes? Well, I have a   glucose test here that indicates that   maybe they do, but I got a hemoglobin   A1C test that indicates they do not. But   I'm showing to the abstractor. Our   system is showing to the abstractor both   bits of evidence.

 Now, any clinician is   going to look at this and say a glucose   of 102, you're not diabetic if your   hemoglobin AN1C is 6.0.   But we want to make sure that we present   the conflicting evidence. And again, as   Greg said, that hybrid intelligence,   that clinical editorializing,   that overseeing of the decision so that   we get high quality data.

 A person can   look at this and quickly say, "Yeah, the   answer to this question is no." But the   AI presents the conflicting evidence so   that they, the human can make the   decision instead of the AI just guessing   or trying to decide which one of these   is stronger evidence. So this is a great   example of some of the things that we've   done to make sure that we keep   highquality data, that we keep that   hybrid intelligence human in the loop.

  Let's help the humans be what do what   they're the best at instead of sifting   through a chart which the computer can   be really good at. Let the humans make   the clinical decisions about how to   answer these questions.   >> But it but it's not but you're still   with you're within a uh your LLM is or   CLA or whatever.

 You're running within a   confined set of data, right, which is   the the patient charts. So you're   actually not   >> they're not hallucinating. There   actually is a measurement of 102, you   know, in the top cases.   >> That's right. And if I want to go see   it, I can click on it and go see the lab   result in the lab. Right?   >> So, so I can go validate.

  Um, and you know, unlike, you know,   hallucinations are becoming less and   less frequent. Um, but when we feed it   real patient data from a patient chart   and are very strict about the guidelines   we put on the models, we rarely see   hallucinations in our pipeline.   >> Right. Right. Fantastic.

 Um, is there   anything else you want to show us of the   the demo that's useful to the useful   useful to the   >> That's a That gives you a good   >> That gives you a good pretty good idea.   Fantastic. All right. Brilliant. Well,   you can stop sharing now, Jared. And uh   let's So, let's talk about So, the the   obvious question here is you establish a   good market and then let's just do some   basic mechanics on Carter.

 You mentioned   Greg, you've been around since 2017. Um   uh start with the small investment from   the from the cardiologist, right? Um and   then give me a flavor. I know you raised   a decent chunk of like in a B round   earlier this year. What's the total num   the amount of money that's gone in so   far?   >> It's total is about close to 60.

  >> Yeah. I mean most of obviously was your   your signing bonus. So after all of that   was dealt with maybe maybe some less but   I mean um and then   you've actually had investments from a   number of providers as well, right? UPMC   is one of the others I think in   >> Yeah, we um so we have you know a a   group of um uh venture funds that   invested in us.

  um with a long background investing in   digital health companies. And then we   have seven or eight health systems that   have also invested like UPMC, Memorial   Care in Southern California, UNCC, Tampa   General.   >> I mean, it's a fairly obvious thing that   you know when you talk about those   investments that they would understand,   yes, this makes sense because we're it's   something that we're we're working on   the whole time.

 So let's ask the the and   and uh ballpark how many customers do   you have?   >> Total number of hospitals is about a   hundred.   >> Okay. So you're you're getting there but   there are does that systems or is that   you is that is common spirit one or is   common spirit 20 or what how   >> common spirit is multiple hospitals.   >> Okay.

 So that so so you're getting there   but you're not at there are 5,000   whatever hospitals in in America. You   have room to grow. So so let's ask the   the sort of the obvious the obvious big   picture question, right? which is we   talked about Claude and CHBT. They're   obviously coming for you. We talked   about how smart those models are   getting.

 There are a lot of companies   now have raised decent amounts of money.   You know, 60 million is by no means the   most, but there's not nothing um to do   various different flavors of I'm going   to read the record and tell you   something interesting, right? Um in in   in this and I guess that the you know,   I've seen people doing it for like   quality abstraction for mental health   and obviously a lot of people doing it   for coding.

 you've had some of the big   ambient AI companies say they're going   to get into this to do utilization   management uh your review and all this   stuff. So all these proposals about what   happens and then of course you have the   big gun owner itself epic working with   Microsoft saying it's going to be doing   stuff in AI.

 So when you uh went to when   you went to raise the last round or   these things, what is it that is special   about what Carter's doing in the world   of registries and registry creation that   is makes it not vulnerable to you know   whomever else?   >> Yeah.   >> Google, Epic, whatever somebody else   kind   of bases and communities that world   claim to be doing everything from coming   after this range.

 Is it such a small   unimportant market they haven't noticed   it or is it something special about what   you're doing? You know, give me give me   your response.   >> Well, about 10 years ago, a CEO of a   digital health company um was talking to   me and he was he was concerned about um   some competitive pressures he was   getting and was we were talking about   barriers to entry and things like that.

  And I ultimately just said to him, I   said, "Look, if they if they have enough   money, they have enough time, and they   have the right subject matter expertise,   anybody can do anything." And so, um,   you know, the competitive moat, um, I   would say really is around our deep   understanding of registries and down to   the individual question being asked.

  And, uh, we have over 300 clinical data   abstractors on staff who are actually   our product development team. It's not,   we've got great engineers um that you,   you know, develop state-of-the-art AI um   but it's really our clinical data   abstractors that are telling our   engineers what to build um because   they're the ones that are using it every   single day.

 And we have we have multiple   ways in which we work with our   customers. We have some customers that   just want to license Lighthouse and let   their team use it, but many many many   hospitals have a massive backlog of   cases um and andor they don't have the   resources uh to do it. So it may be some   combination of Carta augmenting their   team um using Lighthouse and then their   team using Lighthouse as well.

 So we   kind of mix and match depending upon   each individual facility quite honestly.   >> So Matthew, can I   >> go ahead John? Yeah.   >> So there's as as you can imagine every   healthcare technology company's figuring   out how to use AI, right? Um, one thing   that's unique about how Carta applies   this technology to our problem is we can   find out what the right answers are.

 If   you're building a chat bot to try and do   mental health screening for patient on   stuff that's in patient charts, how do   you validate that you got it right? It's   hard to do. Well, we can validate it.   When we go deploy at a customer, we ask   for cases that they have previously   abstracted with their humans and we run   them through our data pipeline and I can   tell you on a per question basis where   we were good and where we were not good.

  And so that gives us a level of   correctness to benchmark our AI against   that many AI use cases do not have or   don't go to to the expense to produce.   But because chart abstraction, we're   already paying the humans to go do it.   We have a data set of correct answers   that we can work with, which really gets   us to very accurate answers.

 So that's   that's one thing that's different about   Carter's approach than many other AI   approaches. It's not just an openw world   chatbot on the chart. Tell me, does this   patient have hypertension?   Like I had a human go look at the chart,   a bunch of them, and tell me whether   they did or didn't, and I can use that   to make sure my models are performing   correctly.

  >> The other thing, Matthew, is the, you   know, hospitals, I've been in this   business for 40 years, and hospitals   want to buy solutions to specific   problems. They don't buy technology for   technologies sake. Um, and so I think   you're going to see a lot of companies,   Carda and others that are very focused,   laser focused on a specific problem and   it just happens to use AI technology to   solve that problem.

 If and if there's   demonstrable benefit, it's all good for   everybody.   >> Yeah. And I think I mean I I wrote a   piece on this about a year ago now   called, you know, how to buy and sell   AI, how to buy and sell AI. It's it's,   you know, it's it's difficult, right? Um   because unlike the old days where we had   you know SASbased products which or some   cases nonsasbased products that did   specific things right you do have a lot   of people saying oh I've got this thing   and it can you know it's going to be   it's getting more and more intelligent   and eventually we get to AGI and the   whole thing will solve itself right can   do any it the robot   >> can can answer any question fix any   problem you have and you know we'll   probably be getting there but obviously   the way we're going to get there is by a   lot of incremental gains and a lot of in   incremental in a lot of individual, you   know, specific use cases and obviously   registries are a big one. So now now you   defended how you're going to still be   around when, you know, Claude and and   GBT become all seeing or Gemini or

  whatever, you know, become become become   all all knowing. Play me the other way.   Where does where does having a tool like   this and we talked about, you know,   automatically uploading uh to the   questionnaires. Where does a tool like   this really take registries to the point   where you could see them being used and   you know frankly being used in   healthcare perhaps more aggressively and   maybe in a in a big way because I mean   there's a lot of registries in   healthcare there's a lot of trials   there's a lot of you know gathering of   patient data and it doesn't necessarily   always come out the other end kind of in   the outcomes or in actually in the   process of how care how care is how care   is done. where if you were to say okay   we're here in 5 years time and we've   been running Carter on in a bunch more   hospitals on a bunch more um you know a   bunch more charts for a bunch more   registries type thing what do you think   where do you think we end up   >> yeah so registries um for Carter today   right it's a very specific problem we   have a ton of experience in in in it um   but if you think about this um Jared and

  I were both at health catalyst for a   number of years and you know health   catalyst and other companies like it um   are really good at at at mapping   structured data and getting value out of   structured data. The real meat, we all   know that 70 80% of of a patient's   record is in unstructured clinical   notes.

 And so if you can unlock that   clinical data and and and structure it   and combine both structured and   unstructured data, um the down the   number of downstream use cases are kind   of endless. Um and so I think what you   what you're going to see from us and you   know take it roll forward five years   there'll be a whole suite of   applications to take advantage of um the   the data that we are literally unlocking   from the patient's chart.

  So um one more let me push you one   little bit more about that is that um   when you've got uh a whole bunch of   other information that's non EMR based.   So I was talking with somebody today who   was bringing in lab data and bringing   they talking about you know and there's   obviously lab data in the EMR but but uh   you talking about many many more lab   biomarkers being generated now and you   have new companies doing that you have   people talking about doing uh um uh   bringing in you know what data from the   watch and the wearables and the RPM all   sort of stuff. It's kind of getting the   you know there are probably abstractions   of it in the EMR now but it's not like   the whole data there.   Do you think that this is an area where   you're going to be able to track all of   that data as well? How is that, how's   the, you know, and I haven't mentioned   genomics and proteomics and microbiome   and all the other   >> sure   >> crap that is literally that's going to   be coming into the you know and right   now people are going you know I've   talked to a bunch of primary care saying   oh don't give me another thing and   others saying AI is going to manage

  this. How are you thinking about that   world of more data coming in? Obviously,   you specialized on the chart, you know,   replicating improving what they're   currently doing. But if there's more   stuff to be done and that stuff starts   mattering things like I know I'm sure   for cancer and other areas there's a lot   of in that.

  >> Yeah.   >> Where do you start? How do you how do   you think about that from your road map?   >> Our platform today is is data type   agnostic. It could be in a spreadsheet.   It could be a wearable. It could be an   image file. It could be a PDF coming   from amulatory environments. We really   don't care.

 whatever is going to add   more value to the use case and I think   it ultimately comes down to the use case   you know you don't always want you don't   always need genomic data or proteomic   data or wearable data if there's a   specific use case for that um absolutely   we we the more data the better   >> all right fantastic well I think I think   the uh you know it it seems to me that   there's a lot you could do here's a lot   you can do so it's pretty interesting   say uh just a word about your strategy I   know Brent do who's been around this   space for a long time doing a lot of   different things is uh is uh relatively   recent the CEO what a couple of years   now he's been   >> uh what's the overall strategy um for   you know getting you from being good   promising startup cool product to being   you know still a big healthare health   tech name   >> yeah it's it's a good question and you   know Jared Brent and I have been   together in this company number three or

  four um and uh you know, going back to   Medicity and then Health Catalyst and   now Carter Healthcare. And I think what   what we have seen   prove out over and over again is   delivering value every single day. Like   it's not it's not rocket science. If we   are if we are solely focused on   delivering value every single day to our   customers and our customers appreciate   the value we're we're delivering, we'll   continue to grow and grow and grow and   grow.

 And so that's our singular focus   is delivering value every single day and   as fast as possible by the way. Um you   know and and what I find really   rewarding is you know when you implement   Carter healthcare the implementation's   about a day. Um and the the value um   derived starts on day one immediately   with the first case.

 Um and so we have a   very unique pay for value model as well   Matthew in that our customers only pay   pay us for the value um received. Um, we   believe in putting our money where our   mouth is. Customers can cancel the   contract at any time. Um, so that's why   we are so intently focused on just   delivering value.   >> All right. Thank you.

  >> Other thing I'd add there, Matthew, is   um, chart abstraction is a means to an   end. And today we're focused on the   chart abstraction part of the problem.   But the reason we do this, the reason   the American Heart Association created   their get with the guidelines registries   is so that we could figure out that   something like the door to balloon time   for a person who's just had a stroke   that patient lives are saved, if we can   do that in less than 90 minutes.

 That's   the kind of stuff that we want to begin   to use this data for. Abstraction makes   some difference in patients lives, but   it's indirect. Once we're good at   abstraction, we'll get good at the   quality improvement part. How do we help   yeah our customers apply this data to   take better care of the patients that   are in their hospital right now?   >> That's what we want to do because   abstraction is just means to an end.

  >> I know that there's I mean there is sort   of fascinating uh data about uh you you   know about how good we are at hitting   certain guidelines. Obviously the   guidelines are changing all the time and   you know things like high blood pressure   rates and under control and that kind of   stuff and and the variation across the   nation I think within states and even   within cities and different health yeah   health systems and different population   groups is still huge.

 So I think when we   think about why we're doing quality   analysis at all, it's like how do 30   years ago John Madison now now retired   but former former CMI Kaiser Permanente   said to me you know from healthcare in   America is we know what to do we just   don't know how to do it and that's   basically true. So I think you know   getting more of that information and and   basically aiming it at more data so that   we know which different systems are   doing and and and then at some point   hoping like pointing the finger and   saying okay you guys have got to improve   from here to here you know because   because of that I think that's where if   you look at the specialy societies and   you look at sort of some of the quality   um systems that's where we're trying to   go it's been a obviously it's been a   struggle but you're obviously that's as   as Jared said that's kind of the end   goal because it's great that you guys   save a bit of money for you know you   know how much nurse time it costs to   abstract from a chart but in the end you   know hopefully a patient will do better   you know patients will do better because   people are moving in the right direction

  so you know that is that is I think part   of the reason why we're all here at   least I hope so   >> hope so   >> all right before we end just a real   quick word so uh we mentioned the money   side um where you guys you guys just   both in Utah I know but uh where's the   company based uh how many people you got   how many of them are in abstractors   working on the stuff and how many the   the operations team just give you a   sense of the scale of you   >> we have um so we technically have an   office in San Francisco but truth is   everybody's remote   >> right   >> and so we have   >> you you are you are responsible for the   San Francisco massive vacancy rate which   will increase as people figure out why   the hell   >> that's right that's right   >> why are we paying for this obviously   when there's nobody in   >> exactly and so our um we've got over 300   critical data abstractors um that do the   actual real work and then there's about   50 of us that um are administrative   overhead.   >> All right. Well, hopefully you're   providing some value to somebody   somewhere.   We we you I'm sure your board will

  review this at some point and you know   and then you're you two can be replaced   by the robot just seems like fantastic.   >> We're all looking forward to that day.   Look at all us old guy all I got old   guys with, you know, receding hairlines   and beards.   Probably should have been pensioned off   years ago.

  All right. Brilliant. Well, I was going   to meet Greg Miller who runs marketing   and Jared Crarapper who runs product at   Carter Healthcare. James, thanks for   your time. Really good to see you.   Thanks for showing me what it all how it   all works.   >> It's been a pleasure.



