Title: Cody Simmons, DermaSensor
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1CjjxfZWuZU
Language: en
Duration: 00:41:04
Upload Date: April 14, 2026

Transcription:

Matthew Halt here with the another THCB   spotlight. I am here with Cody Simmons.   Cody is the CEO of Derma Sensor, uh,   which is in the business of helping   people figure out what's wrong with   their skin, which I guess is where that   whole derma thing comes from. Caddy,   thanks for coming on. Uh, okay. 

So,   you've been running Derma Sensor for a   while. um you've gone through a bunch of   the uh device   um FDA and other stuff process that is   required these days. What is the basic   underlying problem you're trying to help   with?   >> Yeah, good question and uh thanks for   having me on the healthcare blog.   Excited to uh to be with you today.

And   uh the basic problem we're trying to   solve is really um improving   uh early skin cancer detection. Um set   another way or to think about it more   from a public health lens, only 8% of   the 100 million Americans at risk for   skin cancer, only 8% actually receive   the recommended annual skin exam.   And but the opportunity is skin cancer.

I mean, it's literally on the surface of   the body. You can see it. And it's 99%   cure rate if detected early. So there's   tens of thousands of unnecessary deaths   a year. And there's hundreds of   thousands of more invasive surgeries   that are needed to treat the 5 million   plus basilc cells melanoma that are   diagnosed each year.

And so we could   really help a lot with mortality and   morbidity if those cancers could be   detected early. But how do you do that?   Right? There's only 11,000   dermatologists and there's 90 million or   so people not receiving the recommended   skin exam, but there's already a long   wait time for dermatology. So, how do   you address that? And that's what we're   focused on on addressing.

>> So, uh so you you you kind of hit the b   the basic problem, right, which is that   this is uh another areas where medicine,   you know, can be democratized by   technology. Most people are probably   wandering around going, you know, I've   got this mole or whatever. I've got this   rash or I've got you know may maybe   there's something going on

Think about   doing something about it. Don't do don't   do anything about it. You get you do get   a lot of people still are dying you know   of melanoma and getting skin cancer um   you know all all over the world and you   know it's it's a big it's a big issue.   What what is the the   underlying way you know what's the   underlying technology? What's the   underlying way you said okay I can help   fix this?   >> Yeah.

So um the technology is really   interesting that that we're using uh it   was actually developed at the Los Alamos   Research Institute originally and then   further developed and refined uh by the   the researcher there moved to Boston   University's a professor uh professor   Irving Bio uh so really invented and   developed this field of spectroscopy   he's probably close to a thousand   publications now uh hundreds on the use   of this techn technology to characterize   malignant tissue non-invasively.

Uh   dozens of them are on clinical studies   and now a lot of we have nine published   studies. I think there's three or four   before kind of we got involved   specifically on skin cancer but skin   esophageal colon oral um so it's just   generally a very powerful technology   um this kind of optical spectroscopy   it's called elastic scattering   spectroscopy   uh the challenge was it was a $30,000   cost of materials microwave size system   >> okay   >> so that was kind of like okay what's the   technology how like lot of promise in   academia no commercial product and   nothing in a form factor and cost that   makes sense commercially for the problem   we're trying to tackle right maybe   something like that could work for   dermatology there's been some companies   that have tried bringing those kind of   solutions to dermatology they've all   spent a lot of money and none of them   have done well that's a whole another

story we can get into that if you like   but our main focus was primary care kind   of move upstream to equip the   non-speists   not get the specialist even better at   what's already their expertise. Um,   but as you can imagine in primary care,   it had to be our whole thesis was it had   to be really quick and easy to use.

Average consultation times 10 minutes.   They're responsible theoretically for   thousands of diseases. How long do they   want to spend on skin cancer? Not very   long from all the physicians we spoke   with. So our key design criteria is like   can we develop something that the entire   use process is less than a minute and we   ended up actually around 30 seconds.

I   can demo it later.   >> We we'll take a look what actually looks   like in a minute. So just to be clear   this is not like one of the photo   photography you know based attempts to   sort of look at skin rashes or whatever   that you could that you've now seen.   This is a a different type of technology   and the goal here is not to look at non   other sort of wireless skin blemishes   and rashes and whatever and trying to   find if that's who knows what but   instead is to say let's look at if we   have a mole that might be cancer is it   cancer   >> yeah no it is very specific to   suspicious moles or lesions is kind of   the broader clinical term   >> um yeah know there's been a lot of kind   of image based solutions there's a lot   of hype about oh you know and AI applied   to photos of skin lesions match   dermatology level performance. There was   an early paper in Nature like 10 years   ago. Then Google announced a big project   on it a few years ago   >> and it it made it pretty hard for me

leading a company that is not using   imaging around that time. But we kind of   stuck to our guns following what we   thought was was very powerful technology   and that's really paid off cuz a lot of   the image based solutions there's not a   single one that's actually made it   through the FDA and has a commercial   product.

Um even though an order of   magnitude more companies order of   magnitude more publications have been on   image based approaches and I I directly   know a few companies that have failed   major studies andor independent   prospective studies show they didn't   actually work well for skin lesions for   skin cancer. Yeah,   >> imaging can be great for a lot of other   conditions like you mentioned like acne   and rashes and other stuff,   >> right?   >> And monitoring skin lesion changes over   time.

>> It's still standard of care and I think   it should be for tracking changes   because cancers change, benign lesions   can change too, but cancerous lesions do   change appearance over time. So,   >> but in terms of what you're trying to   do, you've taken a specific PR   spectrosity, you've got it down to a   form factor small enough and cheap   enough that anybody can can access it.

And uh so why don't so why don't you   show us what it looks like if you have a   pick find a part of your skin that looks   pretty unpleasant.   We'll dig in.   >> So, it's actually funny you say that.   So, I I joke I was born for this job.   I've got a good 5mm uh neas or benign   mole right on my forearm.

you'd have had   that one implanted if you didn't if   you're going to do just while it was   there anyway.   >> You should make that part of the new   employee process.   >> Uh but yeah, my first biopsy as a   teenager growing up playing tennis in   Florida. My mom and my aunt both had   fortunately early stage melanoma was   easily treated.

So um yeah, it's always   been something we we've cared a lot   about. But ironically, a dermatologist   almost biopsied this lesion. I think it   was a year after I started here. So, I'm   so thankful she didn't because a it's   stayed the same and b I I've scanned it   hundreds of times uh for demonstrations.   But it's funny, I uh was negligent even   here's a good example from a public   health standpoint.

I run a skin cancer   diagnostic company and I hadn't gotten a   skin cancer check in two or three years   and we offer fine health insurance to to   our employees. Um I I got one for the   first time in at least two years uh a   week and a half ago and the   dermatologist was pretty worried about   this mole actually.

They looked at it   clinically and then the dermoscopically   like this has some futures I'm a little   worried about like you're sure this   hasn't changed in a long time. I was   like it is definitely fine. Yeah.   >> So it can be tricky even for   dermatologists who specialize in this   and do it every day. So   >> all right. So   >> go ahead.

So what's the what's the   what's the what's the approach if you're   if you're pretending you're a doctor and   a patient in this one? What what   actually happens?   >> So, I'll act like I'm the doctor and   that my arm is your arm. Sound good,   Matt?   >> Okay.   >> All right.   So, okay, Matt. Yeah. Know, you you you   pointed out this mole on your arm.

You   know, it doesn't exhibit, I would say,   the kind of classic features of   melanoma, but melanoma can be very uh,   you know, vague or subtle sometimes. So,   I don't feel comfortable as your family   doctor telling you it's benign. You   know, I'm not a dermatologist. This   isn't my expertise.

So, we can go ahead   and refer you, but you know, we're we're   here in uh kind of rural California   area. The closest dermatologist is 30   miles away. I know it's a few month   time. Access dermatology generally is   challenging. $50 to $100 co-pay. You'd   have to take a few hours off work. Um   so, you know, it's a a bit of a   challenge to get there.

I know you're a   busy guy. The good news is we just got   this new FDA approved device. There's   nine published studies. Two of those   studies were head-to-head device verse   dermatologist in person showing it's as   accurate as those dermatologists. So,   we're basically going to get a second   opinion from this device to see is there   any meaningful risk of it being   malignant and then we can go ahead and   decide do you need to see the   dermatologist for real in which case   they'll probably do a biopsy.

um because   a concordance between the device   dermatologist I think one of the studies   was uh 88% concordance with what   dermatologists uh do. So we'll go ahead   here. First step is a calibration step.   This is just making sure that there's   nothing blocking the fiber optic probe   tip. I think I mentioned but it's   completely non-invasive.

It just uses   light and pulses the light into the   tissue uh and measures kind of the   reflectance or back scatter to see are   there any signatures that suggest   there's cancer. So, we went ahead and uh   did the calibration. Great. That's ready   to go. So, it's all powered on. The   probe tips clean, ready to use. First   step, uh sorry, after the calibration   step, you take uh five non-invasive   tissue samples.

So, I'm picking it up   and putting it down in different areas.   The same way a pathologist would look at   different parts of the tissue under   microscope. So, sampling different parts   of the tissue and instead of sending off   to pathology, now the algorithm is   processing that data. Okay, great.   monitor.

So that's the lowest risk   result. If it had any signs of   malignancy, it would say investigate   further with a 1 to 10 scale. The   likelihood of cancer in that scale in   the pivotal study with over a thousand   patients, 22 study centers, range from   6% to 61%. So I'd kind of have a sense   of the potential cancer risk. This   didn't even register on the scale.

So   what you just did there was it that   would be what a other than you're doing   to yourself a doctor would just take   that out. Do do they need any special   training or I mean they just have to be   five times close to the source of the   five measurement source on on on on the   uh on on the mole of the lesion and and   that's it.

And it's basically so   presumably I mean I I know you said   you're playing a primary care doctor but   I assume a   >> NP physician's assistant   >> medical assistant could do this equally   well.   >> Yeah we it it it's a physician use   device in terms of the indicated user.   Uh that being said the FDA themselves   required us to do a human factor study.

who ended up uh submitting full, you   know, hundreds of pages of clinical   study reports for six different clinical   studies and two nonclinical studies as   part of our one-year process. Uh four   upfront and then two subsequently during   the submission. And um the FDA human   factor stance on this was if you don't   want to require training of the user,   right? So we don't offer a formal   training program and have your device uh   instructions for use basically that   little operating manual be it that's   fine do a human factor study though   showing that not just physicians but   other staff members other clinicians and   nonclinian staff can read the operating   read the IFU understand it and operate   the device. So they were like   interviewed in person, videotaped, used   it on mannequins, all that fun stuff to   show that uh   folks besides physicians could do it.   Yeah.   >> All right. So what's the uh so other   than the thing on the on the screen that   said in that case monitor, what are the

different I think you have some examples   of to show me of different uh different   results and what the you know what might   experience in the next the next point.   >> I'll pull up a slide and show you and   yeah, we give uh to our our customers to   be able to provide their patients little   pants.

I've heard this is called paper   and I've I've heard a whole new whole   new development in information.   You'll be showing me books that word   means yeah but uh yeah so it gives   examples of common skin cancers risk   factors for me a bit about the device   and then they could write in the   patient's results here scan a QR code   learn more and it kind of has the the   results there monitor or investigate   further with the 1 to 10 scale.

Uh but   yeah, here I'll go ahead and show   uh what you're referring to. So this is   kind of the the output and then I'll   also show you a slide on you know what   are examples what of what doctors do   based on the output. Right. Right. So   literally so literally it's on the   screen. Does it um   does it integrate with their other BMR   or other data or is it necessary or they   basically is this like taking a blood   pressure reading and putting in 120 over   80 or high low or whatever. Right.

>> It's a good question. Yeah. No, I um   we've definitely had some we've had some   requests like oh is this CMR integrated   like kind of be nice? it hasn't really   hit the threshold of like hey this is   really important to a lot of customers   so we haven't done that yet you know   there are we're with uh 10 health   systems and hundreds of private   practices right now uh just a year and a   half into delivering devices uh so we do   plan to integrate with EMRs especially   larger health systems when they move to   broader deployments but yeah it's pretty   simple I mean if you look at it so the   number under investigate further on the   far left that's just kind of the unique   >> uh lesion identifier for that this   specific lesion.   >> So now, you know, you could just write   down, you know, DS one, two, three,   four, result nine, right? Something like   that. Uh, most people use dot phrases or   smart phrases. And we do have a separate   web portal that logs all their results.

It's connected device that they could   always go in, add some patient info,   export it, and make a little report. I   can show you that, but yeah, this is the

output. Yeah, I remember in my uh kid   when they had uh when he had uh he had a   bit of jaundice and they used some   scanner and then we were all sitting   around trying to download a uh an app   which you could calculate how how many   hours old the kid was and you know what   was the number and was was it enough   that you actually get worried about   Jordan or not? I remember neither me nor   the the pediatrician could successfully   download it onto the iPhone in in uh   2014.

phone a while ago   >> and that's what we really just tried to   avoid. So like having to deal with a lot   of that. So the the for example the   device doesn't need to be connected to   Wi-Fi to operate   >> right   >> because it's not you know uploading   large image files to be processed in the   cloud or anything like that.

Uh we we   want people to connect it at least once   a month to check like their account   billing still active to pull the   spectral data off the device sync with   the cloud but you know theoretically it   could be used quite a while offline. So,   so basically it syncs back and forth   with the account and with with the data   but the actual   >> the algorithm is local   >> the actual algorithm the actual scanning   the actual functioning is just is   independent.

So presumably you know this   could be done out in the field or   whatever you know or something it's very   good   >> and the local store and it it's not only   is the algorithm locally on the device   but there's sufficient storage on the   device where it's I think like might be   thousands of scans it's definitely at   least hundreds of scans okay   >> can be saved and stored locally. Yeah.

>> All right. Very very good. So, and then   can you show me a bit more? I think   there was a couple you had of of what   what it looked like. There we go. For   the   >> Yeah. So this is really interesting just   you know uh physicians often ask okay we   get um that the device is highly   sensitive on par not just with   dermatologists but actually a key part   of the FDA's clearance of the device was   that it was on on par with   dermatopathology itself   >> because it's well known in in   dermatology that dermatopathologists   disagree with each other a lot it's   called uh discordance right   >> so like if one derm path diagnoses   something as melanoma I I'm summarizing   I mean there's tons of studies but most   I think say it's like a 10 to 20% chance   another derm path would not call it   melanoma   >> right   >> so you know that was important for us to   show uh we're actually on par with the   gold standard compared to itself so   device sensitivity very high then they

want to know okay so it catches 96% out of 100 skin cancers and same result for   melanoma specifically um and so when it   says negative it was a 97% chance of   being negative in our pivotal study and   then the next question doctors say okay   we understand now it's like the you know   monitor right   very low likelihood of being malignant   so monitor but when it says positive   what's the likelihood of it actually   being positive the positive predictive   value and what do you do as a results   those are kind of the key questions so   you can see here investigate further we   kind of divide it up into low medium and   high risk   >> yep   >> so low risk 6% so okay twice as likely   as monitor   but still pretty low. medium risk 4 to 7   18% that's a 3x increase over low risk   and then high risk 40% another 2x   increase over medium risk right so those   are and the p values between these   categories are less than 0001 so you   know very meaningful statistically and   clinically

and so here's examples of what physicians could do as a result   right if it says monitor monitor at the   other extreme 40% versus 3% a 13fold   difference in cancer likelihood urgent   referral so we've seen health systems   for for example, especially when they   have German in the house, skip the   what's often a six-month wait time, and   push that patient to the front of the   queue and maybe, you know, two weeks or   four weeks, something like that,   >> right?   >> Because a 40% chance of being cancer,   that's actually more likely to be cancer   than when dermatologists do biopsies,   >> right?   >> Studies show they're typically around in   the 30%.   >> I see. So, so you're really talking here   about a very accurate and impactful   screening device, right? which you can   distribute pretty pretty widely.   >> Well, yeah. No, I I we like to think of   it Yeah, it's um uh disease detection   adjunctive diagnostic tool. It's funny.   Yeah. The FDA called it uh different   

terms, adjunctive diagnostic tool, a  second read device. We thought that was   interesting, right?   >> And it kind of aligns well with the   position we described, you know, kind of

like a second opinion tool. Uh one of   our early users said it's like having a   dermatologist sitting on your desk   whenever you're worried about a mole. Um   so yeah this is kind of examples and   honestly I'll say we were kind of   surprised we always knew that okay   should I you know to refer or not to   refer that is the question right we knew   that was kind of the key thing that we   could help detect more skin cancer and   avoid unnecessary referrals but this key   value proposition came up quickly in   health system discussions which is can   you help us stratify   dermatology referral risk levels   >> sure   >> which we hadn't even really thought of   that as I mean uh but I   >> that strike is very obvious because you   want to get people in front of the   dermatologists who are much more like   you know much more likely to need it.   >> Yeah. Well and   >> and you can actually using this kind of   device increase increase the top of the   funnel because you said getting to all

the people who don't who don't get   tested right who don't   >> exactly and about half the health   systems that we speak with have at least   a six-month wait time and a big problem

for them is patient leakage.   >> Sure.   >> Right. primary care first to derm. They   call, they say, "Yeah, I have this one   of our board members. I I had I had to   make a call. Uh they gave them a   one-year wait time. Uh my mom 10 months   wait time in the University of Florida   in Gainesville." Like it's pretty wild.

So they lose a lot of patients to nearby   private practices. Many of them private   equity   >> or to nothing, I would guess, right?   >> Or to nothing. Exactly. Especially men.   Studies show we're much worse. Sure.   >> At not just asking about skin   conditions, but actually following   through with   >> Absolutely. Of course.

Of course. That's   fantastic. Good. Um, and do you have I   think one more to show me on the uh   results side. Is that is it two more?   >> Uh I was Yeah, maybe this I mean just so   this is our kind of web portal you know.   So this would be the kind of thing we   would integrate. It's pretty   straightforward.

So device record number   on the top left. The first few digits   are specific to the device and then   after that it's just a numerical counter   kind of legion you know after lesion   scan date time stamp result. And if you   click on view, it pulls up this little   box. And uh we just avoided the whole   PII topic.

We just don't save any uh PII   on our server. So doctors can input   information if they want kind of do a   device result. This mainly used for   reimbursement purposes. Um and that's   it. So it's a pretty simple kind of   back-end data structure. you know over   time if we want we could add kind of im   you know photo capture and things like   that but we find most customers if they   want to take photos they already have a   solution for that   >> especially health systems right epic has   all the you know mobile apps for photo   capture and things like that so we   didn't really try to reinvent the wheel   on that front   >> and they can just say that in the in the   PDF in the record and associate with   Yeah.   >> Yep. or like health systems just create   a smartphase or dot phrase where they   you know type in a couple things and   they can even have whatever that health   systems kind of management guidelines or   recommendations are just built in there.   So then it's kind of a reminder

to the   doctor what what their primary care   leadership in derm department want them   to do based on the result.

>> So if this is going to a regular GP so   you're the GP in you know rural   California or wherever you mentioned we   were we were allegedly before um what's   the kind of economics for that? How how   does it work with with them since I mean   if they obviously I'm sure it's   different with the health systems but   with a regular doctor can they lease the   device by how do they get paid? How does   that work?   >> Yeah, there there's a couple options.

Uh   they can purchase the device. Um we see   a pretty small percentage of them doing   so.   um you know, our our introductory list   price is uh 20,000 with a 10% annual   service fee. And because it's a new   product category, right, buying it, they   don't know what it is. It's never   existed, right? There's never been a way   when a patient walks in to practice and   points out their mold to you for you as   a doctor to test it for skin cancer.

It's just never been possible.   >> So, the large majority are doing kind of   the rental model or subscription model.   Yep. which our introductory pricing on   that we announced at launch is $1.99 to   3.99 per month. $1.99 is for five   patient credits a month. 3.99 is for,   you know, additional use and um uh we   we've changed pricing since then a bit   but um that that's definitely the more   appealing model, right? And how can they   build this IO7? So you're saying you   charge them, how do they get paid for   using   >> Sorry. Sorry. Yeah. So before I got to   what they get paid, I want to want to   what they're paying us. So uh there's   two main avenues. One is uh ENM codes.   So evaluation and management codes are   kind of primary care docs, bread and   butter. They build based on time or   based on medical complexity.   >> You know, doing a skin exam using our   device adds a bit of time and it   sometimes can add significant medical   complexity. Like if someone comes in for

a steroid injection or for example an   annual wellness visit which doesn't   include a physical exam well now you're

doing like a distinct physical exam u so   documenting that um but theoretically   doctors could do that without our device   >> right   >> practically they often don't because   it's like it's not diabetes it's not   heart disease skin's not if I'm a family   doc or intern it's like ah skin's not   really my thing so for example we worked   with one practice they're like Yeah, I   guess like when someone asks about it,   we check it out. I don't know.

Like, so   they pulled their billing records for 12   months prior to device use, they hadn't   documented ICD10 diagnostic codes once   for skin lesions. There's like 60 of   them. Hadn't documented a single one. 3   months after uh using our device, they   looked back at the post 3 months, 34   times they documented diagnostic codes.

So not that that increases their ENM   reimbursement every time, but it's   certainly going to affect it   appropriately as it should sometimes. So   the clinical work involved uh separate   from the device is a piece of it. And   then the device itself um you know we've   been using uh or providing uh   reimbursement document documentation and   a certified coding support group uh to   support unlisted code 9699.

Um our understanding of that on the   front end was that it's not particularly   uh successful. We were hearing that from   dermatologists cuz you could imagine an   unlisted dermatologic procedure code if   that worked well with dermatology   probably be build 10 times a day. Right?   So but in primary care we thought well   maybe with primary care because there is   a national Medicare value ascribed to it   maybe that could work out all right.

you   know, they submit a little packet   specifically on the procedure they did   with RFDA clearance number, AFP support   letter, things like that. Um, so that's   been been working out quite well. We   think at least it's been better to date   versus the uh more traditional CAT 3 uh   death trap, I mean, sorry, pathway.

Um,   right, which is oh, every payer   immediately issues a policy saying   experimental, not covered, not paid,   right? Um, so you know, I think maybe   we'll go to CAT 3 at some point soon,   you know, so it's kind of device   specific or we might go straight to cat   one. I mean, we already have tens of   thousands of lesion scans, several   hundred doctors, hundreds of accounts.

So I think that the challenge with the   kind of chicken and the egg for most new   medical device categories like ours is,   you know, how do you get to the users   and usage levels to support a cat 3 to   cat one process? because I think the   survey they need to survey at least like   200 active users something like that   like we hit that in the first six months   of use so we're not u and we have all   the usage logs to show it because they   that's also why they want cat 3 so you   can track it it's like well it's a   connected device we can track it so I   think some unique aspects about the   device like being able to show real   world usage we didn't necessarily need   to do the cat 3 route I think most   companies kind of have to but it often   creates a lot of challenge challenges   for them and their customers.   >> And in terms of the health systems, um,   are they able to justify it, you know,   in other ways in terms of making their   dermatologist busier and that kind of

tuff?   >> Yeah, I think that that was one we saw,   you know, we're trying to work with some   large kind of dermatology groups also,

but in house it's a pretty clean story,   right? which is okay. Even if your   billing department or financial   leadership views the device as break   even or maybe even a bit of a loss, who   knows kind of internally how they   calculate that stuff sometimes, it   should definitely benefit your derm   department, right? Cuz if PCPs, per all   of our studies and real world evidence   we've seen now, they're doing more skin   checks.

They're detecting more disease,   more skin cancer. They're now for the   first time able to objectively   systematically prioritize high-risisk   patients to your derm department. You   guys will have the derms will have a   higher proportion of higher risk   patients and can do more procedures uh   not just biopsies but then also   excisions like treatments um which for   them is the better use of their clinical   skill set and financially uh is better   for the health system.

presumably we   have to cross our fingers because it's   the American healthare system maybe   nobody cares but may actually help some   patients as well.   >> Yeah. You know I actually it's funny I   I've been quite surprised about the uh   because yeah you asked about the   financial aspect but we've we've spoken   with a couple health systems that are   very um obviously there's a lot a lot of   private practices are in that boat like   okay maybe make some maybe lose some   whatever this is going to help my   patients. I'm excited about it.   especially concierge career, we see a   lot of that. Um, but I think health   systems too, we've seen we actually had   a I won't name them, but a great call   with the chief clinical officer of a   very very large primary care group uh   one of the top rated um what's it   called? Uh NPS or kind of patient would   I refer a friend to it uh in the   country.   >> And he said, "Listen, at the end of the   day, we really just want to change the 

paradigm on cancer detection. 20% of   cancers are detected through screening.   most of it's kind of ad hoc not through

screening often too late and we really   want to change the paradigm and you know   didn't spend too much time on on the   financial aspects and more talked about   how can this help us with that goal you   know   >> well I mean that is the goal and I think   if you go into eventually right the uh   I'm not not much America is in it but   the value based care paradigm of we can   prevent cancers you know especially late   stage malas there's not there's a lot of   death and cost associated with that It's   a so it's a it's a you know it's it's   it's a good thing. I think you're sort   of moving towards like we're seeing a   lot of the other technologies of sort of   more democratization of the ability to   to do early detection and you know   produce better care. So it's you're   certainly in that that that route. So ju   just to wrap Cody tell me a bit about   you uh how long you've been you how did   you get involved in doing this out of   out of the lab boss at Boston University

and then uh uh tell me a bit about the   company how long it's take you how much   money you've had to raise how much how   much you've had to go to the FDA give me   give me some numbers on that

>> you're going to make me talk about that   okay so   >> I'm I'm actually coming up on 10 years   in May uh so you know healthcare is   hardware is hard the FDA is hard and we   were doing all three. So,   >> right.   >> I mean, and you made it through, which   is not not everybody does, as you said,   for many different aspects of it. Yes.

>> Yeah. No, we we made it through, but to   your point about timeline, yeah, it was   about $30 million and 90 95% of that was   R&D focused. So, I'd say roughly   speaking that those eight years, uh, the   first three were basically   miniaturaturizing the 30 lb $30,000   spectroscopy system in into this. So   this is actually technically the fourth   generation device but first commercial   generation.

Um the next I got to do the   math right. The next three years we're   basically running we've done some early   kind of data collection and validation   studies. Next three years we're   basically run uh sorry next four years   we're basically running   well we ended up submitting six but   various kind of prospective major   studies.

is the pivotal 22 study centers   led by Mayo Clinic over a thousand   patients that was two years long uh many   millions of dollars. Um and then getting   everything together it was the first   submission I've ever been a part of a   denovo the FDA uh almost made it to PMA.   We actually submitted the denovo   submission on I think it was uh uh it   was early February 2023 and when they   accepted it for substantive review they   say you know it has all the necessary   elements we've accepted it for review by   the way this may not be a denovo it may   be a PMA we haven't decided yet   so yeah so we found out definitively it   was a class 2 denovo in June when they   get here's your 15 pages of uh follow-up   questions and concerns and and by the   way, we want you to redo one of the   studies. Even though we had two   presubmission meetings with them on the   full protocol for that study, they now   disagreed with that study uh how it was

designed and sample sizes and stuff. So,   that was fun. Um but yeah, so that that   was a one-year process. So, three years   on device development, four years   running studies, and then a one-year uh   denovo clearance process. Uh and yeah,   my background before that is um   undergrad in bioengineering and   business.

I did my master's research in   a biomeaterials lab at Stanford and then   I was at uh Ro Janentech uh for four   years in a leadership development   program and then two years in a a   commercial oncology strategy role um and   then at a very similar connected device   screening and monitoring startup called   digitsite uh leading the business   development work before this uh and had   some startup experiences at Stanford in   undergrad but   >> so always kind of health tech focused.

Yeah. I you know it's funny Matt I think   you'll get a kick out of the story. Uh a   friend of mine another entrepreneur in   undergrad and asked me to start a   company with him. It was like   crowdfunding t-shirt startup which   actually went really well at Teespring   and   >> much simpler no FDA requirement for the   maybe.

>> Yeah. I was like I was like man I'm   about to start my masters in like bioeng   engineering. I'm starting like a t-shirt   company but uh I'm like good luck. He's   like anyway and um he made fun of me.   He's like why are you going to work at   Janentech? Isn't it's like the largest   pharma company in the world.

I thought   you want to do startups. And I'm like,   "Yeah, but I don't want to do a PhD or   an MD." And I feel like I need to get   kind of foundation somewhere. You can't   just like jump straight into like pharma   or medtech, you know, when you're like   22. You need to kind of know what you're   doing a bit like regulations and, you   know, y   >> and he's like, I don't know, man.

That's   BS. Like that lady Elizabeth Holmes   didn't even finish Stanford under and   and she's and she's killing it. I was   like, whatever.   >> She's she's doing fine. She'll be she'll   be   >> I was like, I'm not I was like I'm not   as talented as her or whatever. It is   what it is. So then a couple years later   it broke and I I I texted him a link to   it. No comments.

I just text him a link   to that.   >> Don't worry, she'll be uh she's   campaigning for a pardon from the jail   cell even as we speak. So let's let's   just finish on the on the   commercialization. How long's it been on   the market? How how you doing and where   do you think this goes?   >> Sure. No, good questions. We um so   clearance was on January 12th, 2024.

first device was delivered in midmay uh   to a a private practice actually in   Pennsylvania, Dr. Kevin Wong and his   second patient he ever used it on was a   melanoma with a score of 10. Uh so he's   a lifetime believer now of course and um   uh yeah so midmay so we're just over a   year and a half uh we're over nearing I   think 300 accounts   uh close to a thousand physicians using   it.

We've surpassed 30,000 lesions   scanned today. Um, and that, you know,   it's growing pretty quickly. A year ago   it was a thousand a month. Now it's like   2500 a month. Um, so yeah, ramping up   and very excited. I don't know when this   is going to be posted this episode, but   I'll just I'll keep it a high level.   We're we just signed a few weeks ago and   we'll announce soon a partnership with   one of the largest medical device   distributors uh in the country and have   a couple other kind of in the works.

So,   you know, cuz we've done all this, Matt,   with our threeperson sales team. Yeah.   >> Right.   >> U cuz, you know, in this space with a   novel product, it's not a drug. It's not   even, you know, therapeutic device.   Like, it's hard to justify, you know, 50   100 person sales force right out of the   gate.

Um, so, you know, our average   contract value ACV is a few thousand   dollar, but very easy product to   explain, automated skin cancer scanner,   right? And provided some documentation.   And, you know, we won Time magazine best   invention of the year a year ago. and   other things. So, uh, we really hope the   channel partners will be able to do a   great job in and kind of helping us get   out there and we just did some training   with one of them in Texas a few weeks   ago and they're off to good start.

 So,   uh,   >> so your vision would be that basically   every primary care doctor should have   this eventually.   >> Well said. I couldn't That's right. I   used   >> I'm going this is the tan tan sansome   thing that venture capitalist talk   about, right?   >> Yeah. Yeah, I used to like saying,   "Yeah, we want this to be the next tool   of the trade alongside odoscopes,   athamoscopes, stethoscopes, red   pressure, monarch cuff.

Our goal just   for our first product just for the US   because we have four active pipeline   programs. We're going live uh alive abro   going alive going live abroad uh later   this year in a couple areas. um just in   the US just first algorithm the goal is   100 million ARR by the end of 2030 which   is about 18,000 devices and 8% market   penetration   and so you know we we think especially   with some of the big channel partners   coming on board that that's doable um   and that's excluding our pipeline   excluding sales abroad um so yeah pretty   excited about the   >> opportunity that that's exciting so a   lot of potential and last question do   you think that's consumer version of   this or is that a step at this stage?   >> So the the tech so the boss university   part of the story Dr. Maurice Fer and a   longtime business partner Chris Dwey   actually formed the company a few years   before I got involved brought me on as   the first you know kind of first

full-time person and uh as Maurice put   it when I met him 10 years ago we're   looking for someone to turn our research   project into a company right   >> so so the tech was that's so he uh sold   his last company make for 1.6 six   billion uh well-known medical device   entrepreneur executive it was make   surgical um was on the board of trustees   of BEu I think for the last 20 30 years   where I went to medical school so that's   where the tech came from their initial   vision was consumer use like hey we want   to turn this huge microwave size system   into a little light pen that patients   could buy at CVS and kind of scan the   lesions at home uh two main challenges   we ran and actually Matt the first   competition recognition we ever received   as a company was at your event called   2.0 know eight years ago and ironically   we won the consumer track   >> but then   >> but diagnostics track for   >> but then but then we found out   subsequently like oh two problems a cost

of goods is not 50 100 bucks what we   hoped nowhere close maybe eventually   maybe Apple could do that or Samsung   right and B the other issue is FDA is   not excited about consumer use because   their concern is lesion selection Right.   So, oh great, the mole on my arm, like   the demo, that's benign.

Yeah, but you   have a melanoma on your back and you   never go to the derm and you die. Right.   So, like they're very concerned. Like,   how do you solve for that? I mean,   that's a very challenging uh so I you   know, I think it'll happen in my   lifetime, but it's not an   >> it's it's not in the road map in the   next couple of years.

You've got other   big officials, right? Right. I get it.   >> Yeah. Maybe under tele medicine   oversight, right? Something like that it   could work out. But, um yeah, standalone   patients use something like this at   home. you basically have to have like   perfect report and I'm seeing this in a   bunch of other areas, right? Even in   sort of things like neurological testing   or whatever where you know you you could   can simply do this stuff at home.

We're really broadly talking about the   democrat the democratization within   general care   >> of what's been highly specialized and   you know if you go down the path of all   the stuff that's happening in the the AI   world a lot of that I mean yes some of   it's coming to patients but a lot of   it's helping you know there's a reason   that these doctors are using open   evidence and   >> and and and it's compet competitors and   all the rest of it you know um and it   seems to me that this is this is you   know purely part of that but obviously   what you've got which is specific is a   particular way of checking Yeah.   Particular, you know, diagnostic   functions.   >> What it reminds me of people used to   ask, well, wouldn't, you know, the   clinician use market, because I used to   be like, oh, we're going to do start   with clinicians and then patient use.   They're like, but wouldn't the clinician   use market cannibalize the patient use   market? Cuz like if you're successful

enough with clinicians, why do I go, if   that's our problem, that is a great   problem.   like that that's you're such a   successful, you know, deck of corn,   whatever company that people don't even   need it at home because it's on every

every single   like that that you know, VCs come up   with all kinds of   >> let's let's let's let's celebrate those   problems when they actually happen,   right? Compared to the   eight years and millions of dollars   getting it through the FDA and before   you get to the starting gate.   >> Exactly.   >> Well, uh Cody, congrats on getting   getting this far because that's really   big achievement.

Uh, and you know, you   as I said, it's interesting and he's   clearly going to be doing some some some   good something coming out of house 2.0   eventually.   Um, looking forward to seeing goes. I've   been speaking with Cody Sims. He is the   CEO of Dermaensor and you've got a   pretty good idea of uh what the device   is, what it does, and how it's rolling   out. Cody, thanks for your time.

 >> Thanks so much, Matt.
