Title: Dayne Williams, Quantum Health
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4iuZmY5e-Lc
Language: en
Duration: 00:28:24
Upload Date: April 22, 2026

Transcription:

Hi, Matthew Holt with the Healthcare   Blog on the TCB Spotlight. And this time   I have Dane Williams. Dane is with   Quantum Health, which somehow I have   never interviewed anybody at Quantum   even though I knew your predecessor as   as Zane Burke's predecessor at CEO as   Zane Burke   from his Livongo days.

And I have spent   far too much time interviewing other   people in the navigation space. But   Quantum is in some ways like the   granddaddy of them all. So,   Dane, you've   Welcome to TCB. You've been uh you were   as you just told me, you were on the you   were on the farm raising horses having a   good time and then got dragged back into   this having been at   having been at the CEO and built a   company called PlanSource before this.

Um so, you've been CEO now for a little   more than a year, is that right? That is   correct. Uh January last year. Okay,   fantastic. So, for those people who got   those people who I I said the word   Quantum and and health navigation, but   for those people who   who don't know, we'll talk a bit about   some of the acquisitions that Quantum   has fairly recently made while you've   been there in in shortly, but what   historically what does Quantum do?   Yeah, we   positioned as a healthcare navigation   company. And that means a lot of things   because it's uh   it's a big industry that that has a lot   of different meanings, but we we engage   with the member   at the earliest possible moment and   making sure that they are to the right   doctor at the right time and have   actionable   impact with them. And we drive ROI to to   our um   to our employer groups.   So,   the real basics here, and I think this   is sort of you know, going going.   There's there's a lot of interest as you   know, probably in employer groups, but

now increasingly in in Medicare and   elsewhere around you know, the idea of   how do you help people navigate the   healthcare system. But you know, let's   start with the dumb questions. Don't we   have health plans and primary care   doctors? People are supposed to get that   for them. What what do we need   navigators?   Um it's dysfunctional.

I it's um   confusing. It's overwhelming. I and and   it's very challenging. And I actually   had a personal experience when when I   um retired, my father had early   dementia, which I did not even know it   at the time. And so I had the chance to   be his navigator. And that's where I   really saw um   how dysfunctional this industry really   is on making sure that the members are   do have all the knowledge and our   ability to make the right choices at the   right time.

Um so that that's that's   really the passion that I developed on   making sure that that everybody deserves   quality health care and making sure that   they can um   um navigate something that is extremely   overwhelming and confusing, especially   at their most   uh most toughest time of their life, at   times when they're dealing with these   health issues.

Sure. So, uh a lot of, you know,   navigation has has been around sort of   benefits, not the world that you come   from. And obviously a lot of it's a lot   of it's around actual sort of clinical   care. Give me a flavor for for what   you're dealing with. When you go to a   big employer group, um one of the   employers that you're working with, and   you have calls coming in uh for the   what's the typical type of request that   you're getting?   Well, we get we get every call.

So, the   only way to access the system is through   us. So, we're the only number on the   card. Um so, we have providers calling   for authorizations. We have members   calling for checking to see if they   are eligible for for certain benefits or   what their deductible might be or they   have a clinical issue.

So, you know,   there there's all across the gamut, but   that's that's one of the powerful   components of our model is the early   engagement because we are the only   access into the system. Uh and then from   that point, we make sure that we engage   and and drive the employee to the right   solutions.   And then in terms of you know the the   more clinical   calls, what   Let's hold off before you bought in bold   and you bought   Ceras recently.

What's been the typical   approach? If I call in and I have a   question that concerns primary care or   some ongoing disease or cancer or what   have you. What actually happens? So I   I make a call I look at my card and make   a call.   I might have gone to see a doctor you   know outside of your network or   what's the typical experience one ever   has? Well, it is   is depending on where they are in their   journey and and how we engage with them   and the challenges that they might be   facing but really making sure that they   understand all their options and and   then we that care navigation piece   before recently we weren't in care   delivery and now we are but we ran the   you know care management and just making   sure that we're bringing everybody to   the table together to   give that member the best information to   make this decisions.   And what of that? So if I'm   you know I'm calling in, what does that   mean? Does that mean you know you will

your people will suggest doctors to me   you mean will actually you know come on   the call with with doctors will set up   appointments. What's the level of   engagement sort of in that clinical   We absolutely will set up an   appointment. We can guide them to the   now with them bold we will guide them to   the highest rated quality doctors out   there which which we fundamentally   believe in that that is the way to keep   down medical costs is get them engage   early and drive them to the highest   quality doctor both doctors that are   possible. So that that's that's   the essence of it is you know you have   the early prevention and that you you   absolutely try to engage to prevent and   then the early engagement and a term   that we come coined is is real-time   intercept to where we're engaging   earlier than anybody else in the   industry to make an impact in that   claim, and then getting them to the   right care, you know, the right doctors   at the right time, and then from that

point making sure that we're involved   with the clinical journey   for what whatever path it might take   from there. So so you said something   there which is interesting, which is the   early engagement of figuring out the   claim. How do you get alerted? Is there   like times Is the only way to be alerted   for the the employee or the member to   call the number, or are there other ways   that you sort of the the such a   prior acquisitions that you you   system-wise could figure out what was   going on?   >> Yeah, there's a lot of ways we get   alerted. They could become from straight   from the member. Obviously, we get claim   speeds from the from the TPAs, but then   we we also will will get the providers   that have to call us. So if if they have   an authorization, they have to call us   as well. So we're kind of triangulating,   and our technology will look for those   triggers as I call them,   that will alert the our our staff to   make sure that we engage, and then it   gives them recommendations on which path   and where we need to go from there.   Okay.

So let's talk a bit about some of the   the the the first acquisition you made,   which was I think last year, which was   in Bold Health.   And you mentioned that they've been in   the business of ranking and and figuring   out who the best doctors are. Can you   explain a bit about before you guys   showed up what they did and what was so   attractive about about them to you, and   then and then we'll talk about how they   integrated into what what you're doing   now.

So in Bold Health was the leader in in   quality   data for for providers, quality and   cost.   So they would aggregate the data, and   then they would   rank the providers, and they had a   passion and they have a belief, which I   fundamentally support, is that quality   is is the biggest driver and determining   the cost and outcome of claims.

So, that   that is how they built their business   and you know, providing these these   analytical tools to score doctors   and providers and and that was their you   know, their core business primarily in   the   the jumbo and large um   and but bringing it down to the middle   market as well.   And then when they   when you brought them on board,   how did that change what you know, how's   working with them bold change what was   going on at Quantum?   Well, before I came here, we we were   part partnering with three different   firms to to do this and I went out and   listened to the market and it became   obvious to me from from clients and   prospects and consultants that they felt   like we should own and that should be a   core competency of ours to be able to to   really understand the the quality of   doctors as we navigate to them.

So, that's when it got my interest up to   learn more about Envolve and then I   connected with with Daniel Stein, Dr.   Stein and we built a relationship and a   couple months later I talked him into   they were a fast growth very high growth   company and I talked him into joining   Quantum   um because of the the power of the two   solutions together.

You know, engaging   that data into our adjusting that data   into our engine   um we were able to deploy it in over 3   and 1/2 million   million members and now it's embedded in   our core delivery. And roughly how many   people were they servicing before they   got before you got them?   They had they're were about 5 million   just from the data perspective and then   full navigation we had about a little   over 3 million.

Okay, so so are they still selling that   service to other people or is it or is   it now exclusively just with you? No,   no, they're selling it to we it's a   standalone entity that continues to   operate. But it's in gate but it's   presumably in all of your clients get   that as an automatic part of   >> It is it is included in our package.

So that So that that's one acquisition   that makes a lot of sense. The next one   that you just did which was Cirrus MD.   And I actually if you if you dig back in   the health care blog archives long   enough, you'll see an interview I did   with him and chief medical officer where   he actually had to prescribe I had a   really awful bed bug rash and he   actually I was at a conference he had to   prescribe   I actually made him prescribe on live we   showed actually how it worked in the the   text the video and all that kind of   stuff. Clearly there's been a lot of   changes and we'll talk about you know   Ted changes in a second. There's been a   lot of changes in how   you know urgent care and primary care is   delivered. They obviously started out on   doing   chat basis with chat to video. You've   had obviously a lot of players in the   world with the Teladoc's and Amwell's   and others of the world doing telehealth   directly.   A number of people now have   gone on to   using chat and sort of AI based chat as   a way for for delivering care. Um Give

me a flavor of what   Cirrus was doing and again why did you   decide that was an important part to   bring in in-house and how were you doing   it before? Yeah, it's a common theme. I   was listening to the market and talking   to customers and they they were actually   we had a several common large customers   that were using them and us. Yep.

And I   learned and I learned a lot about what   they were doing from a digital first   perspective   and and it just resonated with me. You   know, to be able to get care   24/7 365 and under you know 60 seconds   is is really powerful. And it when I   I talk about early engagement, this is   just another tool that we can use to be   able to engage with that member at the   earliest point and get them into our our   system to where we can then navigate   them to the to the right care   afterwards. So, it made sense to me.

They had an extremely high NPS.   And the customers love them. So, I I   I   thought and thought long and hard before   we took the step because as I mentioned   earlier, this now takes us into care   delivery. Right, and we're not we're not   just in care management, we're in care   care delivery.

And so, we're it was a   big it was a big leap for us, but I   fully think the next evolution of of   navigation is embedded clinical. I I   believe that you have to be extremely   good at navigation, and I think that you   have to have some clinical components   within that that's going to produce the   best outcomes.

Yeah, and I think it's   also fair to say from the market that,   you know, a couple of players like   Transcarent and and included both of   both obviously gone down that path   before you had.   So, you know, if the market is saying we   we like that, that's probably a   a good piece. How is the I don't know   how far I know it's a fairly recent   acquisition.

How is the sort of roll out   within the book of business going? I'm   always a bit puzzled. So, if I take I   don't work for a big company, I work for   myself, but but if I if if I look at my,   you know, I'm a One Medical member and I   can get telehealth via them, I can get   back and forth with them. I somewhere in   the Blue Shield website California   website, there's a I'm sure there's a   there's a buried link to Amwell or   Teladoc or something.

There are a number   of things you can go and get this. And   I'm always a bit confused about how, you   know, how that fits in into a world in   which there are and obviously, you know,   people go online to Hims and Hers and   buy stuff on cash and whatever now.   What's your sense for how, you know,   going back to the member experience, you   know, you're an employee employee   employee of some, you know, one of your   big customers.

How do you think that you know, the the   co- How do you expect the roll out of   care delivery as well as navigation from   the same the same people is going to   play out?   >> Yeah. Well, we're going to we're going   to embed it into our solution as well.   And like you said, there there's   telehealth everywhere.

I mean, from the   payers to   the employers who buy direct. Um, and   then other people have it embedded. And   And yeah, ours will be embedded. But at   the same time, when when you think about   um   when you think about   what's happened to telehealth a virtual   care over over the recently years, it's   kind of been commoditized from a from a   price.

And that's where the power of   Quantum comes in, where I mentioned that   sleeping giant that we're such an engine   that we can we can more than double   engagement with with any point solution   that we fundamentally believe in that's   right for for our customers. So,   embedding that into our solution, uh it   will be part of our digital strategy   that that we're that we're rolling out   as we speak. And it'll be included.

And   clients, if they want to use the payers,   they they can, but it'll be included in   our digital experience.   So,   this gets that what you just said that   triggered something a little bit in me,   which is the you know, there's been a   lot of conversations about point   solutions being sold directly to   employers.

Some ways navigation's kind of another   point solution, but it's trying more and   more now positioning itself as the first   port of call to manage these other point   solutions. So, what is the what's your   current sense of the flavor out there   amongst employer buyers? And I don't   know how much you've moved to towards   health plans and others, but amongst   employers you serve um as to how are   they thinking about   navigation one-stop, the role of the   health plan or the TPA or the SO, and   all these different point solutions for   any, you know, for   MSK and diabetes and, you know, on and   on and on and down you know, migraine on   and on down the list. What do What do   you think the sort of sense is out there   now and and you know, what what's that   kind of the vibe like for how are they   approaching this? Well, the trend that   it's been the last couple years is not   sustainable. You know, you in regards to   so employers are eager to try more   solutions, but with that said   there is absolutely a point solution

fatigue. And not not just from   employers, but for also from the   members. They're the members don't even   know how to engage with them. So their   ROI is not not what they should be   within the company.   And then the the the I think our average   customer has 15 point solutions. Right.   >> And we deal with over 500 different   point solutions.

So we're we're really   taking a strong focus and narrowing down   like who we will integrate with and   making sure that it is the right   combination and then making sure that we   absolutely will maximize their ROI with   our engagement tools. So that's that's   our strategy. But I think I know that   the um   the the industry is tired of and they're   not and they're not seeing the ROI   because it's so confusing to to be able   and they need a cohesive strategy on how   you're going to put these different   point solutions together with the right   strategy that you can deliver results.   So assuming that that more and more of   that gets outsourced to you or people   like you or companies like you, um what   do you think the uh   what do you think the overall impact is   and where are the biggest sort of ROI   impacts from channeling people to these   digital um digital solutions? Obviously   some of them are in-house with you now

with the the primary care with Cirrus,   but obviously there's MSK and there's   all the other stuff we talked about. Um   where is where is the biggest bang for   the buck and where are you focusing to   help your employer clients to to to   figure out, you know,   who they should be including and how to   get people in in front of them? Yeah,   I'm I'm neck deep in pharmacy right now.

I mean,   with that trend is even higher than   than than health care. Um, so I'm neck   deep in that and I also think that that   should be embedded into   um, RX navigation should be a piece of   our overall navigation as well.   So,   I looked at more   pharmacy point solutions than I even   cared to.

Um, but I'm learning that   space, but that is a perfect example of   embedded into our solution, we will   drive different results and we are doing   that. Um, you know, do   >> How did you manage to say that whole   thing without mentioning the GLP-1 term?   I don't know.   Despite that's got something to do with   it, right? Yeah, it's driving driving   trend and and then, you know, as as this   comes down, what's the next GLP-1? There   there there's so many advancements in   in pharma that um,   I   there has to be a orchestrated approach   on how you're going to be attacking it.   And it's not just you have the member   transparency that you have to conquer.   You have the provider switches that you   really have to   to focus on to biosimilars and and   alternatives. And then you have, you   know, the low volume but really high   dollar drugs in the um, cell and gene   therapy that you have to absolutely have   to have a strategy on. And then you have   the whole supply chain with the PBMs

that's confusing. So, you know, those   three different areas, you have to be a   orchestrated approach to it to have to   see results and and we're positioned to   we're positioned really well to do it.   The other area I would tell you, um,   Matthew is um,   is, you know, in the COE side, not just   on the unit costs, because there's   absolutely an opportunity   to leverage negotiation on unit cost   within COEs,   the centers of excellence, but there's   also a real opportunity to drive quality   in a COE. And when you go back to what I   was talking about earlier,   quality is the cornerstone of what it   really makes us different. Is the the   journey that you take with us is going   to have different quality aspects to it   than if you were trying to navigate on   your own or even with some of our   competitors.   And and on that sense of excellence   approach, I mean, these have been   around. I remember writing about this in   the '90s. And Delta Airlines had one

with the Cleveland Clinic and was happy   to fly people over the place. And they   it took a long time for this to take   off. Obviously, there are some   independent companies. I'm thinking of   the Cleveland and and   they're on Carol and others you know,   who are doing this. And then obviously,   you know, if you go back to your your   competitors, I think Transamerica   actually started with the COE company.

So, So, um you know,   how   how much sort of more room to run is   there in see? I mean, we're obviously   most people are still going to their   local place, right? And their local   place recommend their doctor. How much   um but within the companies you're   serving, how much of you know, the   expensive interventions and surgeries is   getting switched to these COEs? And how   much more can be?   >> You're You're seeing engagement going up   for sure. Their awareness is going up.

Their networks are getting larger. Um   but they're definitely you're seeing the   engagement going up. But I I think   again,   don't want to just dwell on it, but the   real opportunity going forward is going   to be that quality aspect. You're going   to see networks. You're going to see   negotiated rates.

Um you're going to see   favorable outcomes over the standard.   But but there's still the last frontier   is is pushing that quality component. Um   that that could have   a   will have even a different outcome over   somebody that might even have a   different unit cost. So, you got to look   at the cost as a whole.   And and how much does this require   convincing, you know, patients, members,   people, employees, whatever you want to   call them,   that, you know, going somewhere else   that maybe further away that has a has a   different name or whatever is better and   not just an attempt by their employer to   save money. Yeah, well, that is   >> How do you How do you How do you square   that, sir? Well, and and it starts with   that early engagement that you have the   opportunity to build trust. So, you   know, there I There is also all this   power of knowledge coming with AI that   we're leveraging. But I There one of the

core foundations as well is that we I   truly think that health care has that'd   be a combination of technology and   humans to where the humans have the   ability to be to have show judgment and   and trust and build have empathy and   build that relationship. So, with us   building that relationship, we're in a   position to really expose the benefits   of a COE where it's not threatening.

And   and we're also, um,   the payers in general have a very hard   time getting the members to trust them.   So, we're in a very unique position that   engaging with them, building the trust,   we can show them logically why some of   these COEs and the outcomes of them do   make sense. And then we'll drive them to   the appropriate appropriate, um,   providers.

All right, uh, you mentioned it and   we've managed to avoid it so far, but   what is what is your sense about where   AI is going to feature most in Quantum's   work sort of now and in the future?   Uh, it's it's it's everywhere. I mean,   it's going to it's going to stream it's   going to streamline, um, authorizations,   the the UM piece of it, um, helping   helping just engagement, um, with the   member on you know, just through using   our platform in general, but it's also   going to have what we call our warriors   on the front line.   Our front line staff is is going to   empower them. So, you you have voice   agents that that will listen to calls   and and will absolutely make different   recommendations of   So, just a lot more knowledge for our   warriors to be able to consider as they   make the the   path and and the plan for our for our   members. So, it's going to be   everywhere. I mean, there's there's   operational efficiencies that we're   going to gain for them.   Operating costs,

you know, absolutely will continue to to   go down, but it will also allow us to   invest in more technology to help the   member and in more solutions to help the   member um   have better outcomes.   And and do you think that the initial   connection between a quantum member when   they call that number or go to the   website, is that going to be I mean, how   much of that is human now and how much   of that is AI? And what is that ratio   going to be in the future? You mentioned   supporting your   I mean, with with the AI, but what about   actually just direct conversation with a   chatbot?   So, so right now um we built this   company This company was founded and   created the navigation space 25 years   ago.   Um and it was built on the human touch.   It was the last few years that we've   really been pushing the technology to   complement that that engagement. So, our   our um platform   will   allows the member to choose really which

way that they want to engage. But then   when when they do engage,   then if they do engage on the digital   side,   they always the the the AI is looking   for   um satisfaction   cues, and then they will it the digital   side will push the the employee over to   a human or the the um employee can or   the member can always opt out and go to   a human.

So, we it's a very   complimentary. The same system that is   for the member is going to be for our   warriors. So, it's they're looking at   the same thing um together.   Yeah, I think uh you know, a lot of   all service industries for healthcare in   particular in the next little bit have   really have to figure out that that   between   you get the chatbot.

No no chatbot on a   website, I'll tell you my experience   with Blue Shield of California, can be   incredibly frustrating if you have to   call and hold forever and you know, you   get somebody who is struggling with not   knowing what I mean, you know, there a   lot of lot of times I'd rather have a   sort of chat GPT like in the face to   talk to me and you know, than than than   struggle with the human, but there are   times too you want that that that human   reassurance and that human judgment   intervention and figuring that out at   scale is probably probably a big a big   job for your future. Um   >> It is It's a big job. It's a big job,   but it's a huge opportunity. It's It's   such an opportunity to be a to combine   the power of those two components.   Absolutely. All right, Dwayne. Thank   Thank you. Just to finish up, give me a   sense of the scale of by Quantum. It's   about 5 years ago you guys   uh had a big private equity investment   um and and obviously you've made these   two acquisitio
ns. I don't know if you   put numbers on the acquisitions or not,   but um probably not if I should I should   look at the press release more   carefully. I don't think I don't believe   there was a number on either one.   >> We have You're welcome to tell me any

numbers you like, but I love to I'd love   to get your flavor of how how you   mentioned 3 and 1/2 million lives.   >> Yeah. How many uh customers? How many uh   how many uh um give me a sense of scale.   Give me   >> Yeah. So So, now now we're 550   customers. Um   Now with with SIR SEMD with some of   their their their um   they had even different markets that   they they in than even us.

And so,   they're   we're now 20 million members. So I mean   we've taken a significant grow grew up.   We're absolutely the   very profitable in regards to our cash   flow. So it allows me to do things   strategically that will prevent other   people. I don't have to worry about   raising capital which is a great which   is a great component that we control our   own destiny and we serve primarily the   the upper mid and the large and the   jumbo space and I'm I'm looking at   products that will take us down market   as well.

And given the role now that Medicare is   paying for advocacy, is there a role to   go into the the government programs like   Medicare as well?   There is serious MD. They are the   platform in the Medicaid space for a   payer. So we're and they also have a   nice relationship with the VA   as well.

So I we feel like like we're   positioned now to to in and a bold has   with the quality piece would work really   well with with Medicare and with CMS. So   I I'm absolutely exploring exploring   that Jason market.   Okay, so wait but but not quite there   yet. Brilliant. Well, that's a great   summary. I've been talking with Dane   Williams.

He's the CEO of Quantum   Health. Dane, thanks your time. Thanks   for catching us up and thank God I   finally got Quantum on.   Thanks Matthew.   Nice meeting you. Take care.   Thank you.