Title: Dominique Wells, Conduit Health Partners
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VpSq0jh_ozI
Language: en
Duration: 00:34:15
Upload Date: Unknown

Transcription:

Hi, I'm Matthew Hull, another THCB spotlight. I have with me Dominique Wells. She is the COO of Conduit Health Partners. And we're going to find out a bit more about what conduit does in a second. But Dominique, you've been a nurse, an RM working in American healthcare for a while. I say how long, but I've read a bit bit of your stuff about about this. And um you are now and for the last few years post pandemic have been working in a very specific area which we're going to find out a

little bit about which is to do with transfers and transportation and all the stuff that happens around that which is probably something that not a lot of people think about in healthcare but it's probably a screaming big deal. So um just give me a quick flavor of your background and how you ended up there. Yeah absolutely. Well, first of all, thanks for having me here today, Matthew, and and thank you most importantly for not disclosing my age through uh my years of experience. I don't actually know your age, but I

read somewhere you nurses like I was a baby when I got started. I was a baby when I got started. But um yeah, so my background, I've I've worked in a variety of roles in nursing leadership. I I worked peroperative services for a number of years and then I got into informatics and nursing informatics and served as the chief nursing information officer um for Mercy Health Ohio for a number of years prior to really transitioning into my role here at Conduit almost six years ago now. And so, you know, what I what my passion is

is having a nursing background, driving and utilizing nursing resources to really maximize care and um using my innovation from a technology perspective to really be able to drive. And so, this has been a really um good marriage of those opportunities and those exper that experience that I bring to the table. Fantastic. So, um let's get to the what is the problem that conduit is trying to solve? Yeah. So primarily um when we first got started we were trying to to solve for health care access. It's it's the

age-old question and it's a it's been at the top of minds for many healthcare leaders and so that was really our primary focus. So what conduit does is serve as an outsource partner and we with a mission to really improve healthcare access. We want to enable resource utilization. So maximize utilization of those RN roles um but also do that through delivering expert guidance um driving robust analytics and most importantly really creating collaborative partnerships. So when we work with our client organizations we're

not just a vendor. We're we're coming to the table. We want to be part of the strategic um planning and decision- making that's happening within the health system. and and our team can do this through a variety of um services that we offer. And so those the three primary that we do at this point are our centralized transfer center, um nurse triage, and patient outreach and engagement services. All right, so we're going to talk about the first one. Um we're going to show a bit about the first one in a second or

two. Um people don't think a lot about transport nurse triage and and patient engagement tend to be fairly f fairly far down the list when they think about healthcare but um transport is obviously a big deal in healthcare and it's probably like the stepchild where you know people don't think about it but it it occurs a lot doesn't get the attention it probably deserves. So give me a sense about what does that actually mean? What are you doing and more importantly without you how does it get

done now? Yeah so that it runs the gamut. So why is it important? Um there are patients that can show up at a particular facility or location because it's emergent and and they may not have the services. They may not have the capability. The patient may need a higher level of care. And so making sure that we're getting and navigating those patients to the right location to get the care that they need is critical. When we when we think about how are people doing it today, there are certainly your larger health systems

that have internal transfer center systems um where they've got people who are facilitating that. We talked to other healthcare leaders where it is a nursing supervisor who's writing it on the back of a napkin and they're trying to keep a manual or Excel spreadsheet trying to manage as best they can while also manning the house. you know what's you know code situations and an overflowing ED and all of those things and so and then there are some who aren't doing it at all and that is um

that goes to the bedside caregivers to really um to really have to do that I I remember very vividly going into an emergency room was a critical access facility very limited resources and the ER physician say listen I have limited resources particularly at night and I might be doing chest compression while holding a phone in my ear and trying to navigate getting this patient where they need to go. And so that's the problem that we're trying to solve. We're trying to lift that burden from those bedside

caregivers because the they need to be taking care of the patient and we want to help them be able to facilitate what I call clinic um administrative work really that's behind the scenes, but that requires to some extent a clinical um a clinical eye. All right, we're going to get into the sort of that the the the what's it like and how that works in a second, but before we leave the the other two parts you mentioned, nurse triage and patient uh engagement and outreach, what what is what does

that look like and who tends to be using that and how close is that to the transfer and emergency part? Yeah, I mean they're they're separate. I would say outreach and patient engagement and nurse triage really go hand inand we're providing that clinical triage support for provider practices after hours. So, think about or even payers or your insurance. So, think about having a nurse line on the back of your insurance card and it's Saturday and and my provider is not available. You have a resource that you can call

and say, "Hey, XYZ is happening and I'm not sure if I need to go to the emergency room or if this can wait till Monday." So, our our nurses really help walk through that clinical um triage to help the patient have reassurance. I will say most of the time, more than 89% of the time, we're not having to send a patient to the emergency room. We're able to provide self-care. We're able to reassure them and say, "You know what? Let's get you an appointment for Monday

or Tuesday or whenever that is and and be able to to give peace of mind when patients are just not feeling well." Um, and the the patient outreach and engagement kind of go hand in hand. I I'm calling in. I need to change my appointment that I have on Monday because I something's come up. And so our team, those two teams really work in tandem to help support patients after hours. We also offer um office hour support as well. Um and just again another access point to get patients through the door and in the in the right

location. We started nurse triage because our parent organization identified that their clinical team, their nurses were using the emergency room in the middle of the day for non-emergent issues. And so talk about maxim, you know, not overburdening the health care system when we're really trying to focus on that. That was our primary um priority for standing it up and we've been able to leverage it for a variety of other roles. Yeah, we'll probably get on I read a really amazing article on Kevin MD today

about a emergency room nurse not having a great time and uh we should talk about that towards the towards the end of the session. But uh so let let's let's take a look. So you know um it sounds great. We've all seen the ambulances go whiz whiz around the city and we've seen the lifellight hospital, you know, helicopters landing on hospital rooms and whatever on TV. But what actually happens? What what what what's the process if you're replacing somebody writing on a napkin, you know, or an

Excel spreadsheet? You know, what is the actual role that Conway Health Partners comes in and does? Yeah. So, so what I brought I brought four of my colleagues with me and what we want to do is walk through a demonstration of what it's like for a patient request to come in. And so what you're going to see here is um the patient, this is a stroke patient who's presenting from a facility that needs to transfer to another higher level of care and we'll walk through what that process

looks like and how our team is coordinating on the back end. Excellent. So you some of your colleagues in to come and play act play act. So let's go with it. I love it. Hello, this is Evan from Lifellight. How can we assist you? Hi Evan, this is Lyanna RN from Conduit Health Partners Transfer Center. I've received an alert for a patient requiring immediate transport from Southampton Medical Center to the cath lab at Mary View Medical Center. His name is Matthew Jackson. height is 6'1,

195 lbs, and he's 62 years old with a diagnosis of stroke alert requiring an emergent intervention for stroke. Thank you, Lyanna. I can confirm that Lifellight will arrive at Southampton with an estimated time of arrival of 20 minutes for transport to Mary View Medical Center. Very good. Thank you. Happy to help. Hello, this is Kelsey RN. Hi Kelsey, this is Lyanna RN from Conduit Health Partners. We received an alert regarding patient Matthew Jackson, date of birth 5201963 and we're aware he requires stroke

intervention and have set up transport with Lifellight ETA of 20 minutes to your facility and you're all set for transfer. Please call 614-5555444 to provide your nursing report. Lyanna, thanks for doing this so quickly. We really appreciate it. Would you please repeat back that phone number for report? No problem. Once again, it's 614555444. Great. Thanks again. You're welcome. Hello, this is Nicole RN, head nurse at Mary View Cath Lab. Hi Nicole, this is Lyanna RN from Conduit Transfer Center.

I'm calling to let you know we have a patient in route to your facility with stroke symptoms. Patients name is Matthew Jackson. Date of birth May 20th, 1963. and Lifeline is in route and expected to arrive at the sending facility within 10 minutes and then back to the target facility in about 30 minutes. They'll be heading straight to the calf lab for a throbectomy. Is there anything else you need? No, that's all. We're ready for the patient and getting the team together to meet on the helellipad in 20 minutes.

Let us know if there's any delay. Thanks for your help coordinating. No problem, Nicole. It's all about making sure the right care is provided as quickly as possible. Well, I'm team. It's like we're back in N with the helicopters. Uh, fantastic. Thanks so much. Thanks to all of you coming, showing us how it works. Thank you, team. So, Dominique, uh, that's pretty, you know, self-explanatory, right? That, um, there's an alert comes into a facility. How would that alert initially come in?

Would that would that be a different call coming into the uh corner facility or is there a Yeah. So, you know, while we're demonstrating that it's coming in through a call, we have really worked um significantly over the last couple of years to try to get have other mechanisms or modes of that communication coming through. So, the phone is not our primary or preferred source of getting that intake. Um, with some of our client organizations that initiates by the phone call, but in others, um, it may come through an order

entry where they can order or send in that information. And in the beauty of using our telephone system is that that order can be queued up for our team to be able to see it just as if a phone call is coming through. Um, additionally, we try to drive communication because you heard a whole lot of calls. What we want it to be is a single call coming in for the request and we're saying yes. And then on the back end, all of that magical is happening and and that that's the timeburdening pieces of the work that caregivers and

clinicians at the bedside were doing historically. Um and so we will leverage things like um secure messaging platforms or or you know texting technologies to be able to send a message to a provider, get a quick quick acceptance. Um there are some scenarios where our protocols are so streamlined that if it meets certain criteria, we can say yes and just notify Dr. Wells that the patient is coming and that they've been accepted on their behalf. So um in the in in a situation like that, how much pre-work have you done?

Presumably you have a deal with you have a contracting agreement with, you know, Lifeline or other transport company. you presumably have routing where you know somebody if they're at a critical access hospital which doesn't have a stroke facility to get them to the local place with a cat. How much of the stuff is pre-mapped and pre-ordained and how much and how much is being I seem a little you know the the the poor ER doc with the phone on his ear and doing the chest compressions probably doesn't have this

stuff mapped out. So how much of this is sort of background that you've already got these processes done? Yeah. So that's a great question. is part of our initiate like when we go in to meet with a client organization, we do a deep discovery. So that includes what are the existing contracts that you have from ground and air transportation. We're creating um resource materials for our clinicians to have ready access to that information and prioritize contracting. There's all kinds of things

that happen in a variety of ways across um health systems. So we we create those resource materials, but you also have to think about what are the service capabilities at all of these surrounding locations. So when a request comes in for stroke, our nurses have to know really quickly where or which location is going to be a destination location for stroke treatment, orthopedic treatment, cardiac treatment, depending on what service line that patients coming in. So our team does this deep discovery with the health system using

um process and protocol and and templated documentation for us to be able to intake that those resources are then made available to our team. So in the moment in real time those resources are able to be managed up for them to to be able to know exactly where to send a patient. All right. So you're taking a lot there off the plate of the people who are in the ER or in the cath lab or you know where are they and the receiving and the sending facilities. Um how does this get and we'll go to the wider issue of of of

nursing and sort of the harass the harassment well is harassment that nurses are under at the moment but the problems nurses are under. How how does this currently get sort of organized and more importantly paid for? You're presumably coming out of a budget. Who's paying you? Which of these facilities? You know, how do you how do you guys get paid? I know the ambulance, the air ambulance and the ground ambulance get paid as well. And you know, there's billing flying backwards and forwards,

but who are you going and selling to? Whose budget are you coming out of? And how do you justify this in terms of overall uh improvement of experience and savings for the health systems? Yeah, that's a great question. So, our we contract directly with the health system. So we we are working with a specific health system creating and standing up a line that makes it easy for transfer requests to come through. And so that health system is the one who's accountable for the the transfer cases that are coming through. One of

the agreements that we have with our client organizations is that there may be times that a request is going to come in and we that fac that facility I say we because we we pretend like we are them. We are them as a white label. um we may not be able to to accept that patient for a variety of reasons. They're at capacity, they don't have the service capability at that time, whatever. And what we like to do is what we call final destination placement. And we do that because we want that health

system to be the trusted partner. If and when I call you and you help me, regardless of whether you personally can help me or not, um that they they're able to to still they're going to come back. They're going to keep coming back as a repeat customer. um how it gets the ROI for keeping patients within the health network in and of itself pays for the services. But when you layer on the burden that it's taking and the additional workload that it's taking for those frontline caregivers and and and

folks in the emergency rooms, your nursing supervisors and others, it really frees them up to do have additional bandwidth to do some of the other. So all that that entire ROI comes out as part of the growth strategy for the health system, retention, prevention of leakage etc. as well as opening and freeing up the resources that they have in the facilities particularly when we know nursing shortages and other things are a significant pain point for many health systems across the country. Yeah. And and then in a case like the

one we just uh uh did another little little little cameo there was um would a critical access hospital that not maybe not necessarily be in the catchment area, you know, but but calls in or or calls in makes that request. I mean it do they have to spend some money this or is it all basically the main medical center that's receiving that? is the main medical center that's painful. Is there a separate set of billing that they can do via Medicare or elsewhere for this or or are you b you're basically a you have to

show that you have an ROI? That's correct. It's a per case. It's a per case and and I I will say that transfer centers have been around for a long time. Um but what what historically it has been focused on those for-profit entities because they understand the growth engine that a transfer center can bring. What we're seeing more and more are your not forprofits and other entities who are saying we've got to invest in this in order to a open access to care, b make sure that we understand

what our market share is and and drive um patient you know um acquisition and be able to take really good care of patients within our community. So there are multi a multitude of driving factors that health systems are really kind of pivoting their mindset to say this is a priority and we have to do this. It's not just HCA who knows about patient leakage and customer acquisition anymore. Exactly. We'll have a there's a separate discussion about where that's all going within American healthcare. Um let let

me widen a little bit. Um two things. First is about conduit. You as you said you've been around eight years which is not that long. I know that uh um your uh your your your colleague Cheryl Dr. Norman um started this started the company with you and it was like just a few people at the start and it was around and what happened give me about give me about the origin story of the company and how it got Yeah. So we originally started as a um a a a unit of Mercy Health and so we we were originated to really serve and

solve a specific problem. So, first was a access um and that's what they came to Cheryl and said, "Hey, we need you to help us solve for this um and then the second was nurse triage and really around that employment um population and and and that's where we really got our start. It wasn't long though after and it was just by by we didn't intend to go out and sell these services. We had we had health systems coming to us and saying listen we've attempted or it's just a problem and we have to solve it.

can you help us too? And you know, Matthew, healthc care, as big as it is, it's a small world. And we have a lot of friends that have moved on and been around, you know, moved in different areas and locations. And so when they're calling us, the nature for nurses particularly, we want to help people. And so that was really how we got our start was being able, you know, word of mouth got out, hey, you're doing this, you're doing it well. We're seeing really good results or hearing good

results around it. and and we started to service some additional clients and then um really kept pivoting back and forth to our our what I'll call our parent hospital parent facility um until we then after co and just really a couple of years ago put a put a focus on saying but listen we can do this and we can help a whole lot more patients and I always like to tell the story I had people ask me as a nurse how can you leave the bedside and and didn't you go into nursing to really take care of

patients? And and the answer is yes. And I feel like I've had the opportunity to help a whole lot more people, way more people than I today than I could when I was managing five or six patients per day in in the at the bedside. And so it's a different type of role, but still being able to make an impact to healthcare delivery. And what's the ownership structure of conduit now? Um, is it still majority owned by Mercy or what's the Yeah, so so we're um we're uh we're actually under Healthspan Innovations.

So it's a it's an innovative arm out of Bonscore Mercy Health. All right. Brilliant. Right. That's good. That's so you um and then what's your scale? I think you have 230 40 odd nurses uh actually in the call center. Well, at home and they're all at home or they're in call center. They're all at home. Where are they? And what's your scale now? Where were you two years ago and where are you going to be in three years? Yeah. So, um I I would say last or two years ago we were half our size as far

as uh nursing resources. We actually have added 40 or 50 nurses just this year based on um you know our ability to scale and again that that total resource pool is used across all of those you know transfer center triage etc. Um it's spread across both of those business units. So it's not like there's 230 just for transfer center services, but we scale based on the volume and the clients and etc. Um we hope to double in size in the next couple years and just keep doing that being able um to

continue to manage additional volume and and help additional health systems. H how how many health systems you working with now and what's your sense of the kind of share of health systems who outsourced these things rather than trying to sort of manage it internally? Yeah. So, um in the for transfer center, we're currently servicing um 56 facilities. Um on the triage side, we've got about 56 um individual clients that we, you know, individual practices, payers, etc. that we're servicing on the

triage side. And in our scheduling and outreach, that most of those are for some of the larger health systems that we manage with with triage. That just kind of comes along with it. Yeah, there's what 5,000 hospitals and 100 big systems and you 150 big systems in the US. You you you got some way to go, but I suspect so so let me let me talk about two things to close with. One is you mentioned your informatics background, right? the there is a lot going on especially where I live in Silicon Valley of people talking about um you

know AI nursing which a lot of it is taking over things like patient communication, patient engagement, that kind of stuff but also now this agentic AI of you know actually doing stuff you know and you could argue that you could have an AI nurse that could an AI an AI agent that could take some part of that process and take it over. Where are you in the process of using these, you know, new technologies? You mentioned, you know, let's get a lot of tech. It wasn't a phone. Let's get a lot of texting

involved. Let's put it order entry and, you know, get drive it down. Obviously, people are talking a lot about um Aentic AI and doing stuff, but probably not much of it actually happening yet. Give me a sense of what you've looked at, what you've seen, what you're thinking about doing, and where you think this goes. Yeah, great question. Um, you know, AI is definitely top of mind for us. Um, and I think we still see that there are there there are things that nursing has historically taken on, including in, you

know, a contact center, call center situation, that doesn't necessarily have to be all portions of that. So, like I talked I don't know that I shared this, but in the transfer center, we have some unlicensed resources that are helping manage on the back end activation of life lifelight. And it doesn't ne that doesn't take a nurse to have to do that. And so um how do we think about and peel away some of those things and leverage tools like AI, like um aentic nurse, other things like that to really think

about how we might do that. We certainly know that um the appetite from a patient perspective is they want a rip cord. They want to be able to talk to a live nurse. So, it's not going to replace nursing or the live people wholly, but there are certainly situations and scenarios for which it might make sense. And so, we're exploring all of those opportunities. We're exploring what that might look like. Now, from a transfer center perspective, we certainly see lots of use case. We're using a little

bit of AI from like bot technology that's embedded within our telephone system and other things. But if it as we think about a Gentic nurse and a virtual nurse or something like that, we we're just in the early stages of really exploring what that's going to look like. And of course, it's going to be an appetite. It's going to in order for us to adopt something, our clients have to have an appetite for wanting to do that as well. And so, to your point, there's still a ton of conversation. There's

still a ton of unknown. And many health systems are dabbling in what that's going to look like. and we're kind of trying to walk right along ahead of them slightly in preparation for their readiness to be able to to make some of those moves. Yeah, I think uh you know probably a lifelight situation is not where you want a hallucination. So there's probably going to be some nervousness about that, but you can see a lot of patient engagement and potentially you know triage and other stuff where you

where you could certainly start there and it already has you know that's already going on. Um it's just a question of of how how wide this goes. Let me ask you about something more general about nursing. Um, given I have here any other experience, you know, there's a essentially since the pandemic. Um, it seems to me that the, you know, there was incredible pressure on all clinical professionals, especially nurses. During the pandemic, you had this crazy situation during and after where you had, you know, half the

nurses being travel nurses and and and but also the average age of nursing um, you know, has been rising. You've been had trouble recruiting new young nurses. there this big nursing shortage and things like violence against staff and nurses in the ER and elsewhere in the hospital has been on the rise. I just got a Kevin MD about somebody who been assaulted four times, you know, during their career as a nurse in the ER and that kind of stuff going on. Where do you think nursing as a profession

is? You know, what kind of place is it in? And assuming, you know, let me start you with that question. Yeah, I mean I think I think there are two sides of the camp. And I think for the most part, for those of us who have been in nursing for a long time and been around the block, I think we're seeing this as an opportunity for us to maximize what we can do and bring a highlight to the work that that we bring to the table and and how we can change the healthcare model in some ways. Um so I think that's

been a benefit, right? So that's really elevating and saying, "Hey, we we also have a shortage of providers." And so how do we make sure that we still can provide the care that we that we need to our patients and leverage a variety of resources to be able to do that, including nursing and so maximizing nursing to the top of their license has really been a positive benefit that's come out of it. agreed that um you I think we are fortunate because we are in a remote nursing setting that um that

we've got a a strong pipeline of nurses who are saying hey we want to come we want to come work for you. We have to balance that with the fact that it's not easy. So you heard that example of that call. This can be a high intensity, high adrenaline, high chaotic situation at times. And so making sure that we're realistic about what that means for nursing and and what that transition might look like um is important and that's something that's top of mind for us and that we we have to pay special

attention to as we're bringing resources on and helping them understand what does it really mean to be a a telephonic nurse because if it might sound easy on paper but in the reality of it it's still as high and it it's like operating an ED. It's like being in the ED. You're just physically removed. Benefit value. You talked about violence. We don't have that. We might have verbal um abuse, but we're not really hearing that from patients perspect, you know, necessarily because in the transfer

center side, we're not really talking to the patients. But um those are all things that come come to mind as I think about precoid and then post pandemic and where where nursing is. And and then I think the other thing is that we're seeing I've been around and been with the same I've been in the same position for a long time. Not position but place, right? That's not the so moving movement p you know a nursing movement is really a thing that we have to navigate as well. Um and think about the the length

of service isn't quite as long as what we have historically expected or seen. Do do you think that more I mean there seems to be more and more roles and some of them we talk about AI taking over but there seem to be more and more roles outside of actually direct patient care on in hospitals or in clinics um that seems to be more attractive right to to to some do you think we're in in a situation where we're in trouble in terms of recruiting to actually do the hands-on patient care or do you think

that uh the system will manage to use other technologies and whatever to sort that kind of thing out? I mean, I think it's certainly something we have to pay attention to and be concerned about. Um, for sure, particularly and nursing is so broad and just hearing my story and all of the the doors that I've had open and the the the experiences that I've had over my 30y year career. Um, it's there there's a lot and it's growing. So, there's more. So, it's something that we

have to pay attention to. Do I think that we have to be worried about it? Absolutely. Um, we're going to have to continue to think about how do we make it attractive to be able to be boots on the ground in the hospitals in the four walls. But we also know that healthcare models are changing too. So really moving towards um outside of those four walls and and trying to to shift that paradigm as something to pay attention to and you got to be able to move with that as well. So, it's um I think it's

going to be fluid and I think it's it's always been a thing that we've had to pay attention to and I don't think that that's going to change in the foreseeable future. We're just going to have to continue to um be innovative in how we approach nursing and nursing roles and and the types of things I I I can remember early in my career, we nursing just did it. Like if there was a task that needed to be done, nursing would do it because because we knew it would happen. and and some of those

things are going to have to be spared out a little bit so that we're making sure that we're giving and reserving the things that we need nurses to be doing for for those particular tasks. Absolutely. I think you know that that's the whole thing is people reimagine how healthcare is delivered how the hospital exists how it works with clinics and all the information transfer that you guys are a part of that has you know much wider wider ranging uh you know wider ranging uh parts all the way down to sort of you

know people collecting data and trying to build new clinics online all that kind of stuff we're really are going to have to reimagine that and reimagine the profession I do feel that you know from what I can see you know there has been a massive burden placed on all clinical professionals since the since the pandemic and I don't think the rest of America is quite understanding what what what it's done to nursing and to physicians and uh you know think fingers crossed that that things things will at

least stabilize a bit and get better but uh I I'm worried but I I like what you're saying right if you can pass out pieces and make it easier and make their jobs more understandable closer to the high closer to the top of their license that should improve the experience and getting out that sort of scut work and the the the the the the the vision you gave me of the the poor doctor or the charge nurse doing the compressions while they're on the phone trying to find a an ambulance is is one you don't

want to see. Exactly. I mean I mean I try to put myself and we we say this to our team all the time. Picture that every call that comes in is your mom or your grandma or your grandpa. Every patient that's coming through. And so when I look and see those kinds of scenarios, that's what we don't want to happen. We don't want that to be our parent or our spouse or our loved one who is on the receiving end of that. And we know that health care in general is difficult to navigate already. And any way that we

can do to make that easier, more seamless, and get patients where they need is is really our priority. Fantastic. My dogs decided they they enjoy what you said as well. I've been interviewing Dominique Wells. She's the COO of Conduit Health Partners, telling us a lot about their role in uh nurse triage, patient engagement, and that little skit on how they do transfer. Uh Dominic, thanks for telling us about your company. Thanks for your time. Thank you so much, Matthew.