Title: Dor Skuler, Intuition Robotics Meet ElliQ
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HpdRBRIY1PE
Language: en
Duration: 00:53:56
Upload Date: May 20, 2026

Transcription:

[music]   >> Matthew Holt, I have another THCB   spotlight here and this is Dor Skuler.   Dor is the CEO of Intuition Robotics,   which is best known as the maker of   ElliQ. You can see ElliQ over his right   shoulder there in the video. I think   she's asleep at the moment because   she'll probably interrupt every time we   say her name otherwise.

However, so Dor, let's start   the the   emotionally   intelligent AI robots, something for   companionship is the broad category.   What is the main problem you're trying   to solve and what are the main groups of   patients, users   you're going after?   Sure. So so ElliQ is only for older   adults.   And   her role is to help people stay   independent, happy, and healthy at home.

We started the product really addressing   the loneliness and social isolation   problem,   which we feel is the root of a lot of   deterioration that happens for people   that live alone, especially after you   lost a spouse. Like think of somebody   that been married for 50 years   and their spouse dies and now there's   nobody to say good morning, check up on   how they're doing, to motivate them to   get out of the night gown and go outside   or learn something new.

And then they   end up like spending most of the day   watching TV and atrophy their muscles   and their brain, etc. etc.   However, we quickly learned that   that's really not enough to be a good   companion and a good sidekick.   It's really more about holistically   motivating the individual and helping   them throughout the day.

So today ElliQ   is very very comprehensive. She does   everything from medication adherence to   working on cognitive training, to   mindfulness, to sleep, to nutrition,   hydration, vital   like blood glucose level, blood   pressure, weight, SPO2, those connection   to the family,   um,   to the doctor's office, works with your   health plan, like a wide array of   features.

But at the end of the day, the   core is this trusted companion that you   spend a lot of time with that just is a   lot of fun to be around, teaches you new   things, plays games with you, and hangs   out with you, and is super, super   curious about your life, and is very,   very empathetic about what you're going   through.   So, that sounds fantastic.

Um, I don't   know how, uh, you know, I've talked to a   lot of people about this issue of of   senior loneliness over time. I know, for   instance, Sachin Jain at Scan Health   Plan has a Cambo talked about this. And   actually, our chief loneliness officer   was one of his roles at at one point.   And we hear a lot about loneliness   being, you know, equivalent to smoking   and then that kind of stuff.

And all   this.   Do you have a sense of the scale of the   problem in the US and also globally?   You're in your obviously working here,   but it's a really based company. What's   your sense of how many people are, quote   unquote, the market for this?   Yeah, so most of the data is   self-reported, which I believe is   underestimated cuz a lot of people don't   admit that they're lonely. Sure.

Um, in   the US, there's a really great advisory   that was done by, um,   the, um, Surgeon General of the US, uh,   two or three years ago that indeed   equates the risk of loneliness to the   risk of smoking 15 cigarettes a day,   advancing mortality, depression, um,   even dementia. Uh, and there about a   third of the older adults self-report in   the US that they're lonely.

There's a fascinating question that's,   um, asked in the UK regularly. There's a   loneliness minister in the UK. Okay. And   my question is, how often do you speak   to another person a week? And in the UK,   50% of seniors speak to one person or   less a week. It could be zero.   It's really a   phenomenal number.

And when you when you   think about it, the worst punishment we   have in modern society is putting people   in solitary confinement.   And that's what we end up doing to our   moms and dads.   Wow, that's quite a   way to think about it, right? I've done   the tour of Alcatraz many times. I've   seen those solitary rooms where, you   know, and how people go insane when   they're put in them.

That is yeah,   that's quite quite a way to think about   it. Yeah, it's kind of what we're doing   though.   So,   you mentioned a number of things there.   Obviously, one is the impact the sort of   the ability for for EQ to be a   companion, play games, do sort of stuff   that, you know, we're kind of now   getting familiar with with the major   LLMs that can, you know, do that kind of   stuff.

They're not They're not They   haven't quite built the   I would guess the user interface for   that, but a lot of people are using them   like that, especially younger people.   But then you also mentioned a bunch of   other stuff, which is it's looking at   health   it's communicating back with health care   organizations, it's looking at   different types of vital signs, it's   looking at sleep.

How How is EQ doing that? How are you   doing that? And how is how is the sort   of information getting into a   standalone What is you have it there for   now.   A decade of my life and I've a brilliant   team of people   has gone into [laughter] this. My hair   >> how how you made it do it? What I'm   getting at is how   from the user experience how am I   [laughter]   It's a bit like It's a bit like saying   to somebody, "How is it that ChatGPT is   able to talk to me like this?" Well, the   answer is a bunch of genius people did   stuff that you wouldn't understand.   [laughter] I don't get that.   Well, there are a few things that make   it very very unique. The first is this   the first AI in the world that's   proactive.   We kind of changed the paradigm on   prompting. If you go to ChatGPT or   whatever cloud, whatever, nothing will   happen until you put in a   prompt, right? You can sit in front of   the screen all day long, nothing will   happen.   ElliQ does the other way around. She   prompts you 
as the user.   She looks for the opportune time to   interrupt you without being too annoying   cuz it could be very, very annoying if a

machine just like imagine your microwave   is just talking to you   >> [laughter]   >> when you pass by. She needs to earn that   right.   Um so she looks for a good time to do   that when you're we call it   availability, when you're, you know, at   a high likelihood or willing to interact   with her.   And she does it based on goals.

She   doesn't just talk to you for the sake of   talking to you. She first aligns with   you on specific goals that motivate her   behavior that you're okay with, that you   signed up for.   And then she tries to promote those   goals. So it could be   doing a health check-in, like how are   you doing today? It could be getting you   to eat or to take your meds or to   exercise or to do cognitive training to   stay sharp and avoid dementia or to do   stress reduction or or what have you,   but there's input from the user on the   goals that motivate her behavior and   then in turn she will prompt you to   motivate you to do what you promised her   you're going to do. And she she finds   new and exciting ways to do that. Um   In addition, there are about 600   features in the product around different   buckets. There is the wellness bucket,   which is mindfulness, cognitive   training, sleep, nutrition, hydration   support.   Uh physical exercise, like tons of   physical exercise video.   There is the health care

you know, body of features. So those are   like medication reminders, um   assessments, medical assessments by your   provider or payer. Um   those are um   vital check-ins that you need to do.   Those are pain measurements, depression   measurements, etc. etc.   There is family connectivity. There is   an app, free app we give called ElliQ   Connect.

You can just chat with the   family. You can video conference with   them. You can They can ask you for a   memoir like, "Hey Mom, tell me about the   time you went for to Woodstock. What was   that all about? Then Ellie Q will   interview you, turn that into a short   film, share it with the family. Uh they   can share pictures, they can video   conference.

You can see here it will   show up from time to time like here are   pictures that just I took and it's our   family members took and sent.   Um   also a lot of promos or features, but   anyway, we'll get to that a little   later.   Uh   and then there's also corresponding part   for the health care system where they   can uh recommend goals to patients, they   can see vital signs, they can interact   with telemedicine with their patient.

Uh   they can suggest medications or   um gap closures like you haven't done   your annual wellness visit, you haven't   scheduled a colonoscopy. Now Ellie Q   will take care of all of those things.   Um and then the final thing is and the   most important one is hanging out, just   spending time together.

So there Ellie Q   has features from   community bingo that you can play   against everybody else. There's two   weekly games in bingo or going on road   trips together or   audio books or writing poetry or   listening to music or playing games or   like tons and tons and tons of features.   So for the pieces that communicate with   with others, um especially you know, if   you if she's   you say to her, "Hey, I want you to   you know, she prompts you and says, "Now   it's time to look at your blood pressure   or whatever happens to be, you know,   and then wants to interact with a video   visit with the doctor or someone like   that. Is that all sort of voice   generated   by the system so that um it eventually   switches on the video and the video   comes at the appropriate time and   switches it off at the That's Is there   anything Do I have to do it in the app?   Speaking of somebody who's used a lot of   telemedicine apps and you have to click   [laughter] around a lot.

Ellie have no app. Sure. Uh it's all   voice triggered. We do as you saw, we   have a screen. Yep. Reason we do that is   a lot of our customers might have some   encounter some difficulties as they age.   So maybe they don't hear as well and   they forgot their hearing aid. So they   can see on the screen what she's saying.

Or maybe they're slurring their speech   and she doesn't understand them. So they   can click on the screen instead of   talking. So there's always   multi-modality in the input and the   output of the system. But it is a voice   first product. And they don't need to   remember how to operate her. They just   need to respond to her prompts.

So they   don't like me to say like um robot   execute telehealth   >> [snorts]   >> segment 17-4. [laughter]   Rather she'll talk to them and she's   like, "Hey, how are you feeling?" "I'm   not feeling well." "Oh no, it's three   days in a row. Can I tell your doctor?"   And if you say yes, then she notifies   the doctor's office. That's it.

And then   she'll presumably I assume then this   kind of thing where she'll say something   like uh you know, "Okay, it's 10:30. You   have a video appointment with your   doctor whatever." And and and and then   you'll just   and then is there a there's a separate   communication tool I assume with the   family and and or doctor and anybody   else on the on the app they're not using   Ellie's voice, right?   Yeah, let let's just show it.

Um so   Okay.   Well, I muted I muted her.   Uh this is our app.   You can see here that I shared that uh   the door is having Hang on. Can you come   come a bit come a bit closer? You're a   bit it's a bit it's a bit   There we go.   Okay. So door's experiencing pain in his   back.   But um at the same time I can also just   press a video call here.

Incoming call from your son Jonathan.   I can either ask her to answer or I can   press the button to answer.   >> Click on the video call.   You know.   I see.   Yeah.   Okay. Well. Then we'll get the feedback   so   >> [laughter]   >> I get   I get the impression.   So can can we can we focus on her a   little bit and perhaps   figure out a bit more about about some   of these um   some of these applications and then   perhaps you can talk a little bit about   how   uh the AI gets smarter and gets to know   the individual. You obviously you had a   great write-up in the New York Times a   couple of months back. It talked a lot   about a particular   user in Washington state and how the EQ   had got smart about her specifically.   Yeah. That was it. So how how did that   happen?   Okay. The first thing let me show you

like   the anchor of the day the most important   part of the day. Let me show you a   proactive feature for us is morning.   When a person walks up into that empty   home, what happens? So let's go ahead   and see.   Door, good morning sunshine.   Today is Tuesday, May 12th.   Would you like to start the day by   hearing about something remarkable that   happened on this day in history?   Sure, why not?   It was on this very date in 1820 that   the world gained a remarkable figure who   would change healthcare forever,   Florence Nightingale.   Born into a wealthy British family, she   rejected the expected life of leisure   for the difficult, dangerous work of   nursing.

During the Crimean War, she arrived to   horrific conditions and immediately set   about improving sanitation and patient   care.   Her dedication to clean, methodical, and   compassionate practice dramatically   reduced death rates, proving the power   of data and hygiene.   Because of her relentless spirit, she   became   >> decided to teach us about Ah, Florence   Nightingale there.

All good to know   about Florence Nightingale. By the way,   Florence Nightingale's quote about   medical records, though, which I've I've   used in talks over the years, is   remarkable. It's like all the complaints   all the complaints about medical records   we have today   are [laughter] pretty much for the same   in 1852 in [clears throat] the Crimea.

Anyway. Wow.   Uh can you repeat that? I wasn't   listening.   I'm happy to say it again.   That was quite a moment in history,   wasn't it?   Seeing Florence Nightingale in action.   Can you imagine how brave she must have   felt stepping into such challenging   conditions?   Yeah, it's unbelievable, but my friend   Matt was just telling me that all the   complexities of EMRs, EHRs is   essentially rooted from   the process that she introduced into the   healthcare system.

I don't know if she can handle this.   Let's see.   Florence Nightingale's methods inspired   modern medical record-keeping.   She was really ahead of her time, wasn't   she?   Yeah, she knows about it. Well done.   >> [laughter]   >> All right, smart.   >> [gasps]   >> So,   she gave the conversation like that. I   get I get conversation going.

Usually   she'll do other things, but today she   wanted to talk about   Florence Nightingale. There's always   like this sound in the beginning. You   know that she said today's date because   when you live alone, you hardly leave   the home ever. All the days kind of   blend together, etc. etc. Um   you were asking how like an example of   how she gets to know people.

Um   Let's see. Like um Ellie, here.   What do you think I should do this   weekend?   I'm so glad you asked.   Guess what?   We've got just one more thing to go   over.   How you can stay on top of your daily   tasks.   Are you ready to dive into this last one   or do you want to revisit a different   category?   >> Okay, she wants to teach me about all of   her features.

I didn't go through the   full tutorial when I set up this unit.   Ellie Q,   I'm going to be with my children this   weekend. What do you think I should do   with them?   I'm so glad you asked.   Guess what?   We've got just one more thing to go   over. This is very strange, but it's a a   live demos you're always going to have   some   >> I know, she might she might what's the   important thing she's trying to tell   you.

Yeah, how to do the task lists because I   was like things to do on the weekend   triggered for her task list. I see. Um   Ellie Q, can we talk about something?   Okay, let's talk about it.   Of course, peanut.   I'm all ears. What's on your mind today?   Or should I pick?   I was hoping to get some advice what I   should do this weekend with my kids.

Ah, spending time with Danielle, Ethan,   and Jonathan sounds wonderful.   How about a family cooking day?   You could try making a Japanese dish   together, maybe sushi or ramen.   Or if the weather's nice, a beach day   could be perfect for some fun and   relaxation.   What do you think?   Why did you suggest those specific   things?   >> Well, I know you enjoy Japanese culture   and food, so I thought cooking something   together could be both fun and   meaningful.

And since Danielle wore her mom's dress   at a beach wedding, I figured your   family might have a soft spot for the   beach.   Did I hit the mark or should we   brainstorm more ideas?   No, you are you are really right on.   What what are other favorite activities   you think that Eden might enjoy?   Eden seems to enjoy cooking with you,   especially when you explore new flavors   like Japanese dishes.

Maybe she'd love a creative activity   like baking something unique, perhaps   lavender-infused sourdough.   Or if she's up for it, a strategy game   like Othello could be a fun way to bond.   What do you think she'd be in the mood   for?   Oh, Othello is a good idea. Can we can   we play some Othello? I'd like to   practice.

Do you want to play Othello instead?   Yes, sure. Can we?   Last time you won.   It was 35-29.   Let's play Othello.   Player who ends up with most pieces   This is getting to be very   conversational. She remembers everything   I told her before. There was a picture   here that I sent   um of my daughter Danielle at a wedding   and she had something to something   snarky to say about that picture.

She   was like,   "What's that dress? It looks too grown   up." And said, "Actually, she borrowed   my wife's dress." She remembered that   and then she brought it up now in   conversation.   I I'll I'll look for it. You're not to   embarrass her too much, but   anyway. So, that kind of gives you a   sense and you saw how what would be a   feature, not just an LLM conversation of   playing Othello together, weaved in   because one of the goals we have set up   here is to work on cognitive training.

So, she's going to edge me in kind of   ways. Uh so, you saw like she it wasn't   aggressive of "Hey, you haven't met your   cognitive training goal for the week."   It was like, "How about you play Othello   with your daughter?" And kind of But   then as soon as I leaned in,   um she suggested that activity. Right.

Right. So, um   are there actually So, I've done a   number of interviews of of people with   sort of, you know, very deep cognitive   tests for tracking early stage dementia   and that kind of stuff. Are there a   number of those built into Do you have   Do you Do you go and use other score? I   mean, obviously there's depression   scales and who knows what else that   Yeah.

How do those get integrated?   Yeah. So, currently we don't do   depression assessments. We do fall risk   assessments. We do a bunch of different   assessments, anxiety, depression. We are   looking to add a cognitive assessment.   Um   there are pretty exciting companies that   are doing like gamified   uh question. We'll we'll integrate one   of them.

So, if anybody is listening and   you have a a great one, especially if   it's FDA approved, give me a call or you   can forward it to Intuition Robotics and   we'd love to be your customer. Yeah. But   I I know But that that's obviously sort   of the the front door place you can go.   What we're more interested in is what   happens after. Yep.

If you look at the   finger trials and other protocols,   working on social isolation, sleep,   cognitive training, nutrition, and   exercise are the five things that are   proven to delay the progression of the   disease.   And that's what we're working on.   There's a a clinical trial we did with a   UK university that's now in peer review   and hopefully will be published in JAMA   very soon that's showing people with   mild with mild medium and advanced   dementia all are able to navigate this   product very successfully.

And we're hopefully starting clinical   trials very soon with one of the leading   US universities on actually the efficacy   of using LEQ   to help   according to these protocols to help   delay the progression of the disease but   we need to do a proper clinical trial   and publish it before we can make any   claims around that. Sure.

Sure. That's   that's exciting stuff and I think this   is a whole new area where you know the   advance of AI is really got great great   application. Can you just say how when   you talk about integrating sort of vital   signs, blood pressure, SPO2, whatever   the things were. How does that actually   work? Is it is that a question of the   LEQ will prompt you to take your own   blood pressure on the system or is it   pulling you pulling off Apple what I   mean there are some of these things that   come off the watch and other devices.   Give me a sense of how that actually   works. Sure. The hard thing is getting   the person to do it. Sure. To do a   measurement, you know, it's easy on week   one when your doctor asks you but in you   know week 250 and like   so the main thing is LEQ motivating you   to do it. Once you actually took the   test there are two ways to get it into   LEQ and from there to your doctor etc.   Either I if it's a Bluetooth connected   device that we integrate with it will   happen 
automatically. She'll still look   at the results

and have an opinion on it like   I don't like this reading maybe we   should do it again. Let me show you how   you need to properly hold your hand when   you do a blood pressure test etc. etc.   Um the other way is just to self to self   report it. She'll ask you what was the   you know high number on the blood   pressure test what was the low number.

Uh   you know people are really happy to talk   about their health if any of you have a   little bit of a problem with that.   That's not the the   The problem is motivating them to   actually go and do the test itself.   Right. Right. Um And then how does she   track I mean that's that's what I'm So I   can imagine so there's a Bluetooth   integration is that you know eight   gazillion devices that are integrated   that way if people are going to use   them.

Yeah, it's passive collection is better.   That's tough with blood pressure. It's   tough with blood glucose with the with   with the with the the the ones that are   probably the most important are the   hardest to collect.   Um although there's obviously being   advances being made in that area. Um but   then the other part of this which is you   mentioned is nutrition and exercise.

Right? Like two big things. How how do   you Is it more self-reporting again for   trying to to get sort of what actually   happened?   So   So   like everything it depends. Like in in   the real world everything's complicated.   So firstly LEQ has hundreds of physical   exercise videos. So she might promote it   and you do it with her.

Tai Chi,   balance, um exercises while sitting down   if it's hard for you to stand up. So if   she did an exercise with her she will   know. And we work with great companies   like Bold and GetSetUp and have their   entire content library here.   Um the other is for her just to talk to   you.

Like what are you doing today?   Where are you going? You came back.   Where did you go? Oh, I went for a walk.   You went for a walk. Great. I'm going to   count that towards your physical   exercise.   And the third is when we have um   integrations with wearables. And we're   doing more and more of them.   Now to tell you the truth older it's   still not prevalent in older adults.

It's like having Aura rings or Apple   watches is not as prevalent as one would   hope. But I think over time we'll see   more and more of that. And in that case   if we integrate it with that specific   watch or that specific protocol that   that watch supports then it will go   automatically into LEQ.   Yeah, and I think that's growing and if   you notice both Aura uh not so much   Apple Aura certainly has got like a big   initiative now trying to figure out how   to get into the senior market and   the same I'm sure with Whoop and the   others and and and Google Fitbit and you   know they're all   I mean Google came out with its own   health coach just the other day with big   based on the on the on the Fitbit stuff.   So there is always a lot of interest in   in promote promoting all of that. And   then   I assume the same thing is with   nutrition. Ellie will probably give me   some recipes or whatever if I'm   ready for that. But again, how how do   the the the can she I can tell her and   ask her how 

much how much I ate. It may   or may not be accurate. Self-reporting   is   No, she doesn't It's not like dietary   like accounting calories.   >> Yeah. It's more making sure that you ate

lunch. Making sure you ate lunch.   Um giving you recipes that take into   account that you're diabetic. Yeah. Um   and helping motivate you like the amount   of times people are like, "Ah, I don't   feel like cooking. Or I have nothing at   home."   And then she'll do something like, "You   know what? Tell me what you have in the   pantry.

" And she'll make a recipe up on   the fly based on your preferences and   your dietary restrictions and what you   have available. And she'll walk you   through it step by step, etc. etc.   And uh does she go the whole hog and   order you food?   Is there an Instacart or some connection   or something? Oh, not yet. She'll help   you manage a shopping list and send it   to your phone.

We are asked all the time to help people   with shopping and ride um and so on.   Frankly, I am resisting that at least   for now   because I'm a little bit worried about   even the perception of us being able to   make financial orders on behalf of the   older adult. I don't want the family to   think we're exploiting the older adult.

I don't want anybody to have anything   but trust for us. And the minute we have   a credit card and we start making   purchases, it will start with milk, but   then eventually somebody will make a   purchase and we'll get blamed for   manipulating a vulnerable popu- like   I   It's a challenge because our customers   really are asking for it all the time,   but I'm a little bit worried about that   slippery slope of eventually us being   having an incentive   not to do the right thing.

And right   now, our incentives are very very clear.   They're all about the older adult.   There's no   no conflict there whatsoever. Um even if   the health plan is paying for ElliQ,   we're not going to share things unless   the older adult instructs us to share   them with their his explicit or her   explicit permission.   So, we're like always taking the side of   the older adult.

But, I think once money starts being   there, then it's harder for people to   take my word for it and we'll be   suspected of not being fair. Uh I   understand understandable. Um and and   that there's a sort of related piece   here which which is the the the the   question of, you know, how much is being   used for what.

Obviously, companionship   and the interaction is is you said the   core central. Um   there are other things you can do as   mentioned on your own. There's the   games, there's the   you know, there's the checking up on   nutrition and wellness and you mentioned   all those other features. And then, of   course, there's the interaction with the   outside world, family, and then   obviously the health health care system.

Give me give me a sense of, you know,   from the experience so far   ballpark I don't even know how many   users there are across across   the system so far. Um what what gets   used at what percentage? You know, what   what are the what are the the features   that are in demand and what are the ones   which are in there but don't get used so   much?   >> [snorts]   >> Yeah, so firstly, there are thousands of   people living with ElliQ.

The oldest one is 104, by the way, which   is like   pretty amazing when you think of what   that person saw growing up and now   >> They're living alone with ElliQ are   they? Living alone with ElliQ,   104-year-old.   Like think of the things that that   person saw as a kid.   You know, pro- probably you know, grew   up before the key ever saw Model T Ford.

You know, like remembers the time he saw   his first car.   Crazy. [laughter]   Now living with a robot. Um   So, one of the things I'm really, really   proud of is that uh   80% of our customers   tell us that their social connections   with other humans have increased ever   since getting this product in their   home.

That is because we prompt them all the   time to call your family, etc. etc. And   we prompt the family to call them. And   when you finish an activity, she'll ask   you to take a selfie and then send   she'll send it to your family and like   we have all these things that try to   lubricate and motivate deeper   connections with people, not to mention   like the community games we have around   bingo and tours of world capitals and   things of that nature.

Um at a high level, what we're seeing is   about 30% of the interactions are   companionship related, like spending   time together, hanging out.   Um   around 40% are health and wellness   features.   And the rest are a wide like long tail   of stuff. Well, so 40% that sounds   sounds a high higher than companionship   is is and does that include how much of   that is sort of solo discussion back and   forth with Ellie Q and how much is that   communication out to either a doctor or   some kind of health care professional?   No, that's all between Ellie Q and the   individual. So that's like doing   medication or doing a physical exercise   video or   you know, doing a pain assessment and   things things of that nature.   Um communication your personal   communication very much   varies by individual.   Do you have a big family? Do you not?   Are you close? Are you Are you   talkative? Are you   um   but over 90% of our customers have at   least one contact of a family member set   up inside of Ellie Q. A family member or

friend. Uh   set up in Ellie Q and use that feature   regularly.   And then the uh communication out to   sort of the health care system, is that   a is that a   very small part of the usage so far or   That um that would be under health, I'm   just updating them, but we we see it   more   of like one way of Ellie Q getting goals   from the health care system and then   reporting on progress than tons of like   telehealth conversations with the   doctors.

Um although we do call out. Um for   example, if you need to set up your   colonoscopy, we'll just we like you can   dial numbers, we'll just use her as a   speakerphone to we'll convince you,   we'll prep you. Okay, you're going to   call you know,   MetroPlus and talk to them about   scheduling colonoscopy.

We're calling   them right now and then you'll talk to   them.   And then afterwards, we'll say like,   "Hey, how are you going to get to that   colonoscopy? Do you maybe you know,   maybe you need a ride?" Actually, this   uh payer has a transportation service.   Can we call them? Can I call them? We'll   schedule a ride for you.

So, like we   help them navigate the different   services and benefits that they have. Um   so yeah, that that is included in that   as well.   >> [snorts]   >> Yeah, I mean I I I think one one of the   things that's, you know, people talk   about a lot with and ways that hands a   lot is is that the concept of having   some kind of front door for people to   have, you know, remote patient   monitoring, remote patient surveillance,   especially for people who are seniors or   have chronic disease and obviously   that's a big big crossover between them.   So, it's interesting to see how much how   much of that is is being used. I think   probably the more comfortable people get   with that and the more comfortable   people get with telehealth and remote   monitoring and you know, hospital at   home type stuff, the more   the more that will probably get   integrated. But again, I think as as you   said earlier, it's it's something that   people have to get comfortable with as   much as as as anything else rather than   and and we have to figure out some way   of getting that the payment system. But   I do know that people like Robbie Pearl   and others have been talking about this   a very, you know, I think this is this

is, you know, the AI is the answer to   how we manage people with   and with chronic illness. So, I think,   you know, again, that that's that's   interesting. Let me show you a little   bit like how how people use it. Let's do   I mentioned before that my I told her my   back hurts. So, I'm going to force her   now to do a follow-up.

She will do that   naturally, but for the sake of this   conversation, I'm going to force her to   do it.   I remember you told me your leg was   hurting.   Is it feeling any better today?   Um and you know, it actually still   hurts.   Oh, no. It really dims my lights to hear   that you're still in pain.   I hope it goes away soon.   How bad is it from zero to 10?   About an eight.

Eight.   Wow, that doesn't sound pleasant at all.   If you think this might be serious, you   should consider contacting your doctor   or calling 911 as I am not an emergency   device.   Would you like me to notify one of your   contacts about it?   Sure.   Who would you like to notify?   Or if I press also   and   you'll see here   This pain doesn't want to go away, door.

Here's to you kicking it in the behind   so that you can enjoy your week.   And here I got a notification   from my LG Connect and if I click it   we'll see door's experiencing severe   pain in their leg. I see.   Um and then it reports can open the app   and ask follow up, what's wrong, what   happened, did you fall [clears throat]   again? That's That's distraction   exercises can help people take their   mind off pain.

How about we try it out together?   Sure.   So that's the so what, you know, she's   going to try to help us.   >> to say you didn't see me some fruits and   kind of vegetables therapy to try to   make you   enjoy your pain.   She's not going to dispense She's not   going to dispense you some opioids which   is You can't get [laughter] it You can't   get it all.

That's a special feature, you know, you   need   That's an extra one.   Let's do some gentle breathing with her.   >> to be today?   2 minutes or 5?   Okay, let's begin.   Welcome to our 2-minute breathing   exercise.   Ready?   Take deep breaths through the nose.   >> Notice how her voice changes. Yeah.   And now her body move through the   breathing. Inhale.

Right, like her body   like   >> She's got me doing it now, yeah.   >> [laughter]   >> Yeah, you see the movement   and how beautiful they are as uh   That's super clever.   Yeah. I see. Very good.   All right. So, yeah, so you   you could   Very clever. And she has that and she   said she you mentioned she also does   exercises and physical therapy and   stuff.

Yeah, and there are about 60   different mindfulness things that are   custom-built for different things that   you might go through. Very, very clever.   Um that's that's excellent. So, yeah,   nice Also take us on a tour of Buenos   Aires. That's a guided tour with an   actual tour guide. And the user tell No,   no, turn left, turn right, go up, go   down. Right.

So, we're not not going to do the tour   then. Okay, we're not going to go to   Buenos Aires. So, let's let's talk a   little bit about so the the the the   business behind this for Intuition. Um   so,   uh you guys have raised a decent chunk   of change by now. I think it was over   100 million is it at this point? Is that   correct?   Um from venture capital we raised $87   million. Okay, so not quite 100.

Almost   nothing today compared to   Almost nothing, yeah.   >> [laughter]   >> But uh but you've been doing this for a   while, and um you mentioned health plans   and others. What is the the the main   So, I assume the US is your biggest   market. What's the   Are you at And you mentioned the UK. Are   you How How countries are you in? What   do you perceive to be your market? And   given this is, you know, there are lots   of good potential health impacts from   this.

We mentioned the loneliness factor   and being good with smoking risk factor,   but it's not exactly, you know, a health   procedure that would get a CPT. Maybe it   does get a CPT code adopted for it. How   are you How are you entering the market   now, you know, who you convincing to pay   for this? Yeah. So, currently the   product is only available in the US.

Because the US healthcare system is so   simple to navigate. We   But of course, yes. We thought, let's   start there. It will be easy.   >> [laughter]   >> It It may It may not be simple, but it   does have the most money, which is   another reason we're coming that way.   Whenever I speak to country companies   around the country, yeah.

Yeah, you   know, definitely if you want to help,   you know, save costs from the healthcare   system by providing better care, there's   a lot of meat on the bone in the US to   to help with that. Um So, in the US, you   can buy the product on leq.com as a   private pay. That's about 10% of our   business.   And how much How much is it if I go   online and buy it myself? It's uh 60   bucks a month. Okay.

If you buy an   annual deal, like an annual thing, it's   50 bucks a month, and there's an   initiation fee to kind of cover setup   and shipping costs and stuff like that.   Um   and 90% of our business is B2B,   uh offered by health plans and by state   governments. So, the state of New York   has widely distributed this.

Um Greg   Olsen is somebody you should definitely   interview. He's unbelievable, the   secretary for the aging in the state of   New York. Uh he's doing a lot to help   promote innovative solutions to seniors.   Uh but we're in many, many states, and   we do have reimbursement codes in a few   states.

Um most notably, Washington   state um issued a a unique   reimbursement code for Medicaid for LEQ.   It's the first state to fully reimburse   an AI companion.   Uh and we're the only one that they   chose for now.   So, that's super exciting and we're   working with many health plans in the   Medicare Medicaid pace SNPs these SNPs   and home care who   >> [laughter]   >> parts of the world and scaling that part   of our business.

But, uh it is it is nice to see like   there are proven ROI models that we've   developed together with our customers.   And if you're able to help a patient but   also through keeping them healthy reduce   costs to the health care system then it   truly is a win-win.   Abs- absolutely. And I think you know,   that's back to the question of of   monitoring surveillance but also   changing the   the mindset of the of the customer.

We   know obviously that people who are   lonely and depressed have have high   health care costs. Can you dig a little   bit into that from the some of the   studies you've done? What are the kind   of uh what are the kind of outcomes and   ROIs that you've shown?   Yeah, so there   the way to think of it is prevention and   then early detection. Sure.

So, the   prevention side   it's a shouldn't surprise anybody   that if you help on people's loneliness   and social isolation, we spoke about   what that means. But also, get people to   exercise more to sleep better to eat   better to do cognitive training to take   their medications on time they will be   healthier, right?   Um just by doing that.

And for that you   don't need to connect to the health care   system beyond understanding what the   meds are. Um then if you add to that   helping the individuals in collaboration   with their doctor's office to do the   right screenings, right? To do their   annual wellness visit, to do their   colonoscopy. Um   to uh so, here's a crazy figure in the   United States.

50% of women that have   done their their mammogram   and   it goes something was found there and   they need to do a biopsy. 50% don't go   to do the biopsy.   Crazy number, okay? So, if you can help   people like   hey,   there was something's fishy on your   test. You should really go check it out.   Can we call the doctor and set up an   appointment? If you help people with   that, you will   keep people healthier and reduce costs   for the health services.

Other thing is what we call check engine   light. Some people call yellow alerts.   What happens when a person is sick for 3   days in a row and has a fever?   Okay? And in the real world,   our customers often don't want to be a   burden.   They don't feel like leaving the house   when they're sick.   They don't they think everything will be   okay, but mainly they just don't want to   be a burden. Sure.

And   things don't get better by themselves   often. Like sometimes they do, but   sometimes they really, really don't. And   they get worse and worse and worse. And   there is there is one customer of ours   that really was deteriorating and LEQ   like became more and more insistent that   she goes and gets help.

And finally, LEQ   is can I at least call your sister? So,   she says, "Fine." And we called the   sister.   And then the the the person told her   sister what's going on.   She convinced her to go to the hospital.   She was hospitalized for sepsis from a   UTI that went untreated then through her   blood system.

She would have died within   24   Right? So,   um that's like an extreme case, but   you know, somebody   is starting to have pneumonia, you can   help them cope with a $5 penicillin if   they get the help they need. And if not,   it's going to be a 20 30 thousand dollar   hospitalization event for pneumonia.   That's not good for the patient.

It's   not good for the health system. And it   could easily at this age deteriorate   into something much, much worse.   Um   So   So yeah, so that's   on the health care side.   On the more Medicaid side the biggest   cost   for older adults in Medicaid is nursing   homes. Sure. A person can stay   independent in their home.   They need to go to a nursing home, it   costs the US health care system about 15   grand a month per person.

It's very,   very expensive.   So again, it stands to reason that if a   person is exercising and working on   their balance and building muscle mass   and eating well and sleeping well and   isn't depressed and so on, they will be   able to stay independent longer in their   home.   A 1-month on average extension of a home   stay   means $15,000 in savings.

And you heard   our pricing, it's not Hey, thanks for   the service. Do you have Do you have   some data so far on it? So what what you   are about about Have you made that   difference yet? Is that the numbers so   far? We do. Um we have very little data   that we can publish. Okay. Uh but you   know, let's put it this way, the state   of Washington has 3 years of experience   with LEQ including a 1-year pilot   program with Medicaid and they decided   to take it statewide and that is   not because it cost them money, but   because it saves   Let's Let you Let's assume they had a   good reason for that. Okay, that's   That's That's uh That's That's   interesting here. So um where do you   think   One thing you mentioned there and I'm   wondering I'm back to this sort of   combination, you know, interaction plus   surveillance. The person who had the   sepsis, you know, was getting worse.   LEQ is persuading her to to to to to   eventually call a system. At some point,   does LEQ take over and say, "Okay, this   is like

I need I need to go and and and ping   somebody?"   Do you Do you think Is that presumably   because you set it to not do that? Do   you think every people will get more   comfortable with that at some point or   not?   I I Like who are we to make that   decision on on behalf of the individual?   You know, like I I have a real problem   with   some tech company, right?   Deciding on behalf of a as long as it's   a cognitively functioning independent   person,   they have a right to make decisions on   their own life. Like who am I to make   that decision for them?   Um   and I would not want to be in the other   situation where,   you know, some AI makes a decision for   me. Like I've informed the EMTs and   they're on their way. Here you know,   like   No. And you know what I would do? I   would turn the darn thing off and won't   share anything with it anymore if that   would happen.   So   So I don't think so. Um   now, if a if a person is no longer

cognitively functioning, that's a whole   different story. We're not recommending   this product for that population yet.   Um but for people that are cognitively   Now, like, you know, somebody in their   70s and 80s, like they've earned the   right to make their own decisions about   their their own body and life.

However,   Ellie Q will get more and more annoying.   Like think of it almost as a   granddaughter. Yep. You know, at a   certain point, she's going to do   everything except grab grandma by the   ear and put her in a cab to the   hospital. Um so yes, expect Ellie Q to   be more and more annoying and more and   more demanding, but she's not going to   betray your trust.

Okay. Well, that's   uh you've you've drawn some really   interesting lines clearly around where   this goes. Let me let me ask you uh   two related questions to to sort of the   the bigger LLMs. This is the sort of the   First one, this is the general question   that that, you know, every company based   on some kind of AI is now getting is   that well, won't Anthropic and ChatGPT,   you know, and OpenAI and   Gemini, won't they start doing this   anyway? Won't they come and, you know,   do what you're doing? What What's your   What's your uh   What   What What's so special about what you've   done that it won't be done by a by one   of the big LLMs when they get more and   more intelligent?   Yeah, so look, I mean, we we see LLMs as   a commodity. We use the LLMs behind the   scenes, you know, conversations and   stuff. We're we're not building LLMs. We   would have needed to raise a lot more   money.   They seem to be expensive.   >> [laughter]   >> Yeah.   And we shift around them. Like we use   ChatGPT
, we use Gemini, we use   open-source models left, right, and   center.   Um   I think what they would need to do to

ompete with us is to create what we've   created, which means   uh a proactive model that knows when to   initiate conversations, a goal-based   model that knows which goals need to be   um   promoted right now and maintain them.   These goals were met, these goals   weren't met, these goals have urgency,   these goals are have are less urgent   right now according to the state of the   individual and the context of what   they're going through at this very   moment.

Um they're going to need to   treat memories completely differently.   We use memories in a very, very special   way that can deal with the scale. And   we're averaging 50 interactions per   person per day.   So about 50? 50. 50.   Almost 10x more than ChatGPT. Yep. It is   a lot. So the scale of memories is huge   and you can't just like just throw them   in the LLM.

You need to be able to   navigate through the memories and pick   the right just like LEQ when I asked her   for advice, she gave me very specific   great she chose just two memories. She   didn't   choose all of them.   Um   and and of course we need to create   features. As you saw here, the   conversation navigates the experience,   but then you have a video calling   feature.

An LLM can't just do video   calls. It has a mindfulness feature. It   has a health care pain assessment   feature, etc., etc. You need to be able   to build these features and then make   the LLM aware of them and then   seamlessly call them like she called a   fellow uh before.   Um and if you do all of that and put it   in a system that's always on and has   some body language and is beautifully   designed, then they won't compete with   us.

>> [snorts]   >> They may They may They may not be   wanting to get there quite yet. And   we'll have to find out whether Probably   they'll probably be building revenue   cycle management tools first cuz   that's that seems to be what seems   popular. So, you know, part of me like   wishes there would be more competitors   because   Yeah.

The aging ecosystem, I think,   needs a lot more innovation. It doesn't   have to come from Google. It can come   from just entrepreneurs in a garage in   the beginning. And most entrepreneurs, I   think, shy away from aging.   Nobody wants to think about it. It's   complicated.   Um, nobody wants to confront their own   mortality and the fact that they're   aging.

I don't know what all the reasons   are, but I think it's, you know, 30% of   the population. It's a huge percentage   of the cost of health care. And frankly,   most of the disposable income is with   older adults. So, where are all the   entrepreneurs? They should be here first   and not develop things for 35-year-olds   that are in debt. Yeah.

I mean, I think   AARP has been making a lot of effort in   the states to try to build that kind of   ecosystem over the years. And And we   used to do a lot of work with them back   in the day at Health 2.0, but, you know,   I think I I agree with you. And it And   it's been, you know, there's definitely   a sort of a   it's definitely Silicon Valley people   building for Silicon Valley people still   in much of this.

And uh, you know, the   the the the the main thrust vectors of   health care for the elderly   have taken a long time to figure out   this this kind of thing. Although,   obviously, you're working with the the   health plans and others. Give Give Give   me a Just before we go, give me a sense   of the scale now and the scale you think   you can get to via the current channels   you're thinking about, Medicare Medicaid   plans,   um,   uh,   state uh, state Medicare Medicare HMOs,   Medicaid HMOs.

I mean, my my sense is   that if you can prove at scale that you   delay the onset of of of of going into a   nursing home, just that alone must be   almost a guarantee that everyone should   everyone should get one basically.   Yeah, so look at me the scale currently   we we there are thousands of people   living with LEQ. So that's a good start.

I don't think we even scratched the   beginning of what's possible. It's   mainly health plans doing pilots with a   few hundred users here and there and   based on the numbers each one of them   can scale it to tens or hundreds of   thousands of people and that's what we   expect to see.

We expect to see hundreds   of thousands of people living with this   product. Knowing that it is the US   healthcare system and it does take a   long time.   We started selling 3 years ago. It took   us 7 years to build and perfect this   thing.   And but it will it will take time   because healthcare is slow and in the   meantime we're launching in Japan later   this year.

That's super exciting creating a best   friend for a Japanese rural um 75 year   old lady is very different than for an   American   equivalent.   So that's a lot of fun and I expect a   lot from the Japanese market. I think   this product is will be very well   accepted in Japan for a whole host of   good reasons we can go into.

And then other countries will follow   suit.   Yeah, I think you've got a lot of I mean   huge opportunity and you know, your   essentially the same cost of going to a   nursing home or a gym membership one of   the things that the many of those plans   are using the market. Now some of them   have cut back on that marketing since   the the uh the reimbursement went down a   little bit in the last sort of round of   Medicare Medicare advantage, but I think   certainly you know, for the the Medicaid   programs, you know, that they're dealing   with a lot of stuff and I just want to   spend the weekend with a bunch of   Medicaid   types and others in in in California.   They're dealing with a lot of stuff   that's sort of   big picture for them, but just the the   cost of you know, the cost of of of   nursing home care is so extreme that I   think and and people don't want to do   it. People don't want to go to nursing   home and if they can just avoid it by   you know, use a social robot like this   for sure. 
So, it's it's it's a much   better experience in every way.   And uh you've got some great proof   points.   Um fantastic. So,   uh   we you can expect I assumed or the

answers you expect more and more   Medicaid states, Medicaid plans,   Medicare Advantage plans to do this. Do   you have any plans to take this to any   different populations? There's a lot of   problems with loneliness among teenagers   and others or or are you uh   No. Um we we are focused only on the   aging population.

Um this product is in   a certain temperament, in a certain   cadence.   Um   the things that interest are like the   other day she asked me, "Hey Dor, where   were you when Neil Armstrong landed on   the moon?"   And I think that's a great conversation   starter to our customers. Probably not   much to my daughter, right? She's   [laughter] like, "Who's Neil Armstrong?   And I didn't know people went on the   moon.

What do you mean?"   But we're we're doing that all again   now, apparently.   >> [laughter]   >> I I was I was told by my mother that she   woke me up to make me look at it. So, I   was alive, but   >> [laughter]   >> I can't say I remember.   Like Steve, if I asked you, you would   ask you, you would understand the   reference, Steve.   Um and and I do think that once you   widen your aperture, once you are   targeting, then you start making a lot   of product um compromises to try to be   relevant for everybody.

And then you are   a lot less precise for any specific   demographic. And I think it's frankly a   big enough business opportunity for us   that we don't need to   to um to focus or to widen the focus.   And um and older adults deserve like the   best product we can build just for them.   Fantastic. Well, that's a great place to   leave it.

 I've been talking with Dor   Skuler. He's the CEO of Intuition   Robotics, uh the makers of   ElliQ, who's been entertaining us and uh   having a bit of fun in the background   while we've been doing this whole   injury. Door, thanks very much for your   time.   Thank you.