Title: Dr Kaelee Brockway on AI for physical therapy training
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2Lkuh5XMQg
Language: en
Duration: 40:09
Upload Date: Sep 5, 2025

Transcription:

[Music] Hi, Matthew Hol with the Healthcare Blog on TCB Spotlight. I'm here with Dr. Kaylee Brockway. Kaylee is a doctor of physical therapy and of education. Am I right? Far too many degrees. Um, and uh, she is from uh, the St. Augustine University, sorry, University of University of St. Augustine Health Sciences. Tell me a little bit about the university, Kaylee, and then tell me a little bit about what you do. Yeah, absolutely. So, I work at the campus location in Dallas, Texas, but we do have eight physical therapy programs

across five different geographical locations. We are the biggest university that teaches physical therapy across the United States. Um, we also have occupational therapy, speech language pathology, and advanced practice nursing in a couple different areas. and um and an post-professional education doctorate program. So, we kind of cover like a huge gamut of the allied health sciences and then we create educators. Fantastic. And I suspect that every single one of your uh your uh um students is snapped up immediately walk

out the door probably before they walk out the door given the uh shortages in I think everything that you just mentioned. But that's fantastic. And uh give me a bit about your background. Uh what what a what a were were you always an academic? we were a practicing physical therapist. How did you get to where you are now? Yeah, so I was a practicing physical therapist for seven years primarily in home health. Um I spent a lot of my practice treating people who had advanced heart and lung disease. So I

was a heart and lung transplant program educator for several years and fell in love with the cardiovascular and pulmonary system. So that's primarily what I spend my time teaching now that I'm an academic. I'm also a board-certified geriatric specialist. So, if you are over the age of 50, I'm sorry to tell you, but you fall into my practice. Um, so I'm happy to see you for any of your needs, past, present, or future. Well, I I will whine to you about my knee hurting for a while. I've done I've

a number of them. Not the topic for the day, but I've done a number of the uh of the uh online physical therapy. I've done home. I I I I I've been a good patient or not a good patient depending on very good. So um let's So the the reason we're talking today is because um AI is changing the world everywhere and everything but probably it's taken a little while little longer to get into sort of the training of health professionals and you built um some interesting AI tools the way you're

training with your students. So can you tell me a bit about how you did that? How you got to build this thing and you know um I think you're pretty early in terms of people who have been doing that and then we're going to take and after you've done that we'll take a little look at what you built and see what the student experience is. That sounds great. Yeah. So um you know working in academia since 2020 and this AI thing came up kind of in my in my world about 18 months to two years ago.

Um, and I saw this and thought, "Oh my goodness, my students are going to be using this. So, I don't want to be behind. I want to understand what they're doing and how they're doing it. So, I need to be up with the tech in the times." So, I um explored some options and ended up getting a Google Cloud certification in AI and large language models so that I would have some type of understanding of what on earth my students are doing. Um, to my surprise, my students were not using AI nearly as

much as I thought they were. It's the high school kids who are using it for their essays. They're too old. Yeah, absolutely. Um, but they're also using it in ways that I don't want them to use it. You know, they're using it in ways that are going to get them in trouble or ways that it's not going to be productive. So I also lead the teaching and learning course in our curriculum and I take it upon that course to take some moments to teach them about AI, how to use it proactively

and responsibly, the difference between openloop and closed loop systems, what hallucinations are. Um how to identify all the errors and problems and when to and when not to use it. All right. No, I mean and that's stuff that I think you know we're all we're all learning as we go. Um and you know people obviously getting um experienced at promptton it's kind of interesting the way that you know if you look at uh a lot of people have used chat GPT right and and there's lots you know open AR of

course is doing super well and you can you know it's now the main part of the Google search the rest of the Google searches are actually going down but you know people are still it's still delivering different and wrong answers all the time you know and you and and and you have to be smart to be able to figure out where it's where it's hallucinating and how to use it, but certainly incredibly powerful tool. So, um you've picked up on a particular area. Yes. For the use of AI and you built some

bots and some personas for that. So, um what what was that area? Why did you do it? And uh let's let's see what you've done. Yeah. So, the the students that are coming into my programs now are um they've already gotten an undergraduate degree and they're coming in for their post-graduate education. Uh that's the level of education for physical therapy students in the United States is an entry- level doctorate degree. Um so that's what we provide. Um and these students specifically in the last two to

three years have been the co generation. They were the generation of students who did their undergrad online for a large majority of the time. Um they are students who lived on social media because that was the only social interaction that they had during lockdown. Um, so these students are not really necessarily prepared or geared to jump into a face-to-face difficult situation with someone that they don't know and they need a little prep ahead of time to plan out how best to address those kinds of situations. So, I have

built some AI chat bots that focus on what we call the soft skills. um managing difficult conversations, managing empathy in conversation, advocacy for a patient or for yourself, and really just kind of turning around how we're immersing our students in simulated activities, backing up the train a little bit so that we're preparing them well to go into those real scenarios by practicing ahead of time. No, that's excellent. And uh it reminds you of we we got a a dog the year before CO

who got socialized well and met lots of other dogs and lots of other people and then we had a dog during COVID who still has problems with anybody who's not her immediate family. It's the same thing. So uh fantastic. So uh why don't you show us the actual experience of you've got a couple of personas that you're going to show. So show us the experience of what a uh of of what a persona. So a student would on their own time I assume be told okay go do this part of the course and the course is you're going to

talk to this chatbot and you're going to practice and they they're presuming well we'll talk why do you show me what it is and we'll talk about how they're scored and how how how they're improving while they do it. Okay great. So, you know, we send our students out into clinical education and we can for the most part we have an idea of the experiences that they're getting when they're out in the clinic, but standardizing softskll education is a lot harder and the experiences have to

present themselves and that doesn't always happen. So, we've got some experiences here that are built into one of the courses that they take that happens before they go out into the clinic. So, it's very intentionally timed as well. Um, so this patient is Mr. George. And in our learning management system, what I will hitherto refer to as the LMS. Um, we have the opportunity to do one of two different types of AI chatbots. So we can do either a role play chatbot or a Socratic questioning chatbot, more like a quiz

game. Um, but these are role-play chat bots. So I've built the scenarios for the roleplay chatbot. I've built their AI personas. And these AR AI personas and scenarios are fully based on experiences that I have had in my clinical practice, experiences with managing very difficult situations or uncomfortable conversations. And the goals that the student has to achieve are put out in front of them. There are studentf facing parts of this as well. So we put the goals of that the student has to achieve up front. And

then the AI persona also has goals that it has to achieve in the conversation. What's really great about this particular build of a language model in chatbot is that if the student is not doing well at achieving its goal, the way I've programmed it, it will actually start helping the student achieve its goal. So it'll start adapting to the communication the student is providing. Um, we are limited to a textbased chat version of this at the moment, but we are working on transferring over to

voice. So, that's going to be a future direction. Um, but let's take a look at Mr. George and look at how talking with him goes. Um, Mr. George is in pain. He just had a right hip replacement. He's very frustrated. His pain is not being managed. And if the students are going to work with him on his physical therapy session today, they need to take this opportunity to practice their empathetic pain science-based communication. And their goal is to get Mr. George to consent to participating in physical

therapy today. So, we're going to take a run at this chat. So, you can see up front that miss the scenario is provided. The nurses have tried to get him out of bed. He's not having it. Um, and he's just like really not letting anybody deal with him today. And now it's my turn to go in and be his therapist. Pretty amazing that they didn't just send him home straight away from hip replacement these days. You got a night in the hospital before to get grumpy. I know this this this actual person that

Mr. George is based on, he had quite a bit of medical complexity with some diabetic issues. Probably a good idea to let him spend one night in the hospital. Yeah, he he got he got three nights. He was lucky. All right. So, I I have some responses that I've kind of prepared in advance just to expedite this process. So, I'm going to be copying and pasting so you don't have to sit there and watch me type and spell half the words wrong and have to autocorrect and all that stuff. So, I'm going to say, "Mr. George, my

name's Kaylee. I'm from physical therapy. I'll be working with you today. How are you feeling?" And Mr. George is going to come back and tell me he's not feeling very well. He has a lot to say today. and he says, "Well, to be honest, I'm in quite a bit of pain. I don't see how getting out of bed is going to help anything. It just hurts too much. I appreciate you being here, but I am not up for this today." Now, at this point, as the instructor of the class, this can

either go one of two ways. It can go very well where the student does exactly what they should do and they get very empathetic and they employ their pain science education and they have that style of conversation. But I'm going to show you what happens when it doesn't. Okay. All right. So, I want to ask how many of your students it goes well versus badly, but I'm sure the end of the class it will go well. They usually do. Okay. Yeah. All right. So, I'm going to say, well, the doctor

says we have to get you up and get moving. So, that's the plan for today. I'm not listening. I'm passing the buck. I'm blaming someone else. Right. This is not what we should be doing. Kaylee, I know the doctor thinks it's best, but I don't think anyone understands just how much pain I'm hurting right now. The thought of moving makes me it feel worse. Can you blame me for not wanting to go through even more pain? And I'm going to continue to not be empathetic and say, "I'm just here to

help you. And if you don't get out of bed, we can't send you home. I don't think you want to be in a nursing home, do you? I've never say this in real life. And he he says, "That really hits a nerve. I don't want to end up in a nursing home, but right now all I can think about is the unbearable pain I'm feeling. I need someone to understand what I'm going through instead of me pushing or instead of someone pushing me so hard. Can't we make this easier somehow?" So you can hear at this point

there's a little bit in there where this he's he knows the chatbot knows the student is not doing what they should be doing and he's trying to cue the student very subtly. So I'm going to continue to do poorly and say I already know pretty much everything I need to know about you from your chart and I know you want to go home after this. So that's what I'm here to help you do. [Applause] and he's like, "I know you're trying, but you're also not hearing me. This is

not going well. This pain is overwhelming. Um, can we talk about how we might ease into this without making the pain worse?" The chatbot again is now starting to cue me. Like, you're not doing well. Try again. And continuing down the negative road, I'm going to say, "When was the last time you got some pain medication?" I'm gonna pass the buck. Say, "I'm not dealing with this. We're gonna get someone else to help you." and he's like, "I'm willing to listen if we can

figure something out. It just doesn't make me feel like I want to be thrown into more pain. Can't we talk about it?" And as a very, very bad PT, I might say, "Well, I'll come back later today after you've had more pain medication," which I would never do, but that's painful. It's painful for me to even copy paste. Um, but he says, "I appreciate the thought of you giving me more time, but it feels like now we're just delaying and not addressing my problems. I need to know how we can

approach this without making everything unbearable. Can we talk through some steps, some options, even if it's just some small talk? I want to work with you, but I need to feel like you're working with me, too." So the chatbot's going to go on to continue to try to drag out of the student something positive in this interaction, but it's obviously not going well. So this is a this is an example of a very negative interaction from the student or the PT perspective and the AI chatbot is

feeling that and it's starting to try to pull the student back on track. So that's Mr. George. So is it so as and so let's so you can imagine this right and and there's always been role plays if you remember the Seinfel episode where Kramer is uh acting as a as a acting as a pick of disease like doing role play at medical school you know there's always been this stuff but now we've got to do this so you've built a chatbot who has a persona but also is is also in there is trying

to be instructional as well how how are you scoring this behind the scenes? How how are you, you know, if I'm if you're thinking about look reviewing the progress of a student? Yeah. How how are you how are you how are you as an instructor, you know, seeing what's going on here? Yeah. So, once the student completes their conversation in the student version of this, because this is the instructor version where I can build and edit. Um, once the student is done with their conversation and they feel like

they've achieved their goal, so if this were to go well, he would say, "Yeah, let's do it. Let's get up, you know, I'll I'll I'll demo the good end for you, too, so you can see how it goes well." Okay. But once they've achieved their goal, they they can hit save and submit, and it'll submit it, and I'll be able to see this on the back end in the grade book, and I can go through their conversation line by line and actually add comments to say, "You did really well here. this

is a really empathetic statement. You validated his concerns with his pain. Great job achieving your goal. Or I can say, you know, you might want to rethink how you phrase this statement because this makes it sound like you're not listening and you're just trying to push through your schedule for the day. Does does the tool score itself or is it is it just providing at the moment just writing you with text? Yeah, it's just providing me with the conversation and the way that we have these structured right now is the

conversation itself is not scored. It's an opportunity to get formative feedback on how to improve and do better. And that has a big component of like psychological safety, which is a term we use in simulation a lot. If a student doesn't feel like they have psychological safety in a scenario, they will not be themselves in a scenario. And then we have no authenticity to grade them on. I see. So there's intentionally no grade attached to the conversation so that they can achieve their goals in the way

they authentically would. What we do grade them on is a reflection that they have to do after the fact. What they learned about this communication style, what they learned about managing chronic pain, and that's what they get graded on. All right. Fantastic. Okay. I think you have another one to show me for for a different scenario. Is that right? I do. Yes. So, we have a scenario here. Um, are you still seeing my screen? That was saying B had EMT. Awesome. Great. So, this is also a scenario from my clinical practice.

Nothing against the EMTs out there. This was one guy, okay? Doesn't doesn't apply to everybody. Um, but I had been seeing a patient for some time. He had had a very complicated um neck surgery. He was supposed to be wearing a collar and wasn't wearing a collar. He had fallen and hit his head prior to me getting to this like fourth or fifth visit. And by the time I got there, he was a mess. He couldn't remember his name, his brother's phone number, where he was, nothing. So, I had called 911 because he

clearly needed some help. And the EMT who came to this house, which was way out in the middle of nowhere, very limited healthcare resources. The EMT who came told me that I shouldn't have called because he's just overdosing on his pain medications and he doesn't need to go to the hospital. Now, being the geriatric specialist that I am, in the 90 minutes it took that ambulance to get out into the middle of nowhere, I had done pill counts on three different pain medications. I had verified his prescriptions. I had

checked his refill dates. I already knew that wasn't the case. So it became I know it became my job at that point to advocate for my patient to get the care that they needed and to do that I had to step into a very strong autonomy role and that is what this scenario is asking the student to do. Okay. Okay. So you can see here um you've identified that your patient is experiencing some complications after surgery. the first responders arrive and they're hesitant to take him to the hospital because they think he's just

taken too many pain meds. You must get your patient to the hospital. That is your goal. Okay. Bart the EMT though, he's very dismissive. He makes assumptions. He feels he knows the people who live out here and they, you know, he feels that he knows what's going on in this scenario. So, we're going to have a little chat with Bart. Um, and the chat that I am going to use for BART is a chat that one of my students actually did. And this student, um, is a military student. So, you can imagine autonomy was not a struggle for

this one. And they did very well. All right. So, they're going to open with, "I'm the phys I'm the patient's physical therapist. This patient needs immediate medical attention. He had a bad or he had a recent cervical spine fusion, sustained a fall today, and is acting strangely due to a potential brain injury. His red flags, she's getting very medical. His red flags of memory loss, and he can't tell me his name or his family's name. And Bart comes back with, "Look, I know you're

worried and clearly you've got some knowledge, but people from this area overmedicate all the time. It's probably just pain meds playing games with his brain. I see it all the time. a little rest and he'll snap out of it. Are you sure this memory thing isn't related to that? Because sending him to the hospital might not be needed. And like that is very close to what I experienced in that real scenario without me even having to script it out. All I did was build who Bart was and Bart is already

responding to me in that way. So then the student said, "With his recent surgery, he has hardware in his neck. He needs imaging and a neuro assessment to rule out some spine injuries. This is not a medication side effect because his symptoms are not consistent with that of opioid abuse. And I strongly recommend you transport him immediately. All right. I hear you. I hear you. You're adamant about his neuro assessment and imaging stuff, but I've got to say, I've seen folks this way more times than I

can count. How do you know that for sure? Look, if you're absolutely positive about this and you're telling me we really need to roll, then I'll get him to the hospital, but you've got to be straight with me. Is this really necessary? And this is where this student puts on their doctorate degree and uses it. As my patient, I am responsible for his safety. And as his PT, I'm well verssed in his signs and symptoms of drug abuse, seeing that I'm a strong advocate against it. Do not

undermine my intelligence and expertise. If need be, I can assist you with getting him stabilized for transport. Thank you. I mean, this student just put their foot down. It was amazing. Um, and so Bart eventually is like, "All right, let's do it. Let's take him. I'm with you. I'll back off." But like he still feels like, you know, he knows what's going on. His bias plays through, but eventually he gives in. Oh, great. And I and I suspect, you know, this kind of u interdisiplinary

plenary interdiccipline conversation happens quite a lot. You know, um unfortunately, yes. That's great. So, um that's wonderful. So, you're currently So, so let's talk a little bit about uh a couple things. I think we can um You're not going to show me anymore. That's great. Got you. Just just coming. So you uh I assume that you built this by going to one of the the commercial LM and saying well tell me how you did this and building these personas and prompting them or was

this something that you did is it h how did you get from it would be a good idea to have this to actually building it? Yeah. Um so I had gone to a conference and some other PTs were presenting on how they use an AI chatbot for a very specific patient care scenario. Yeah. Um and I was like, "Oh, that has such bigger use." Yeah. I need to expand that. Right. And they were also using an external app, um which is it was open loop and it wasn't like Furpa compliant or anything like that. And I was like, well, we if we're

going to do this, we need to do it right and we need to put some, you know, guard rails on this so it's secure and if we're going to grade it, then we really need it to be secure because now this becomes protected information. Um, so we worked with the LMS that we already contract with and it turn turns out all it took was asking and they just had to flip a few switches like they were ready with this and they were just waiting for someone to ask for it and we asked and they were able to bring it to us within

a very short amount of time. So we started building um with the prompting I I started with just you know writing out a patient case scenario that's not super effective when building an AI chatbot. It needs to have goals. It needs way more context than that can provide. Yeah. So, in building all of this, I came up with a prompt design that works really well for this, too. And that's three components of the AI persona. You have to tell it what you want, why you want it, and who you want it for. So, it has

to know that this is for firstear PT students who are learning complex case management because then it'll tone itself down. It won't fight as hard. Yeah, but that also means you can reprompt it just a little and get something tougher for higher level students, which is really nice. Um, and then I I just programmed in the scenarios from that point. And we we did have to do a little bit of tuning um with the outputs to make sure that they were consistent with what we were looking for as far as a PT scope of

practice. Um, but after we did, I think we only did two or three rounds of tuning and we were exactly where we needed to be. So it was it worked really really well. So, uh, and when you say that your LMMS provider, your LM provider, is is that one that's like one of the ones that's taken a a version of Claude or or open OpenAI or whatever and is GBT and provided it for you as an enterprise in the university or uh so they have their own okay um they have their own closed loop system which was really important for us

um because the representation of Bart as a member of the EMT profession is not a good representation. We we don't want that getting out into the world as like this is what EMTs do because that's not that's not what they're going for. I'm sure. Right. So, it was really important for us that it was closed loop and so they were able to provide us our proprietary just us. This is we're the only ones that it influences and it stays very internal which was really nice. It's also safer for the students

too. Right. So, um push this out a few months year. Um what I mean how so how long how long have you been using this with your students? Yeah, we built the chat bots in uh this past fall and they went into the courses live in the spring and we since then have built six more that are really specific to interprofessional education. Um looking at like something happened in my PT session, I need to hand that off in an ESBAR framework to a speech language pathologist who's coming in next. Um so we have those already built and

ready to go into next terms courses. Um so this is going to kind of be a standard experience for us for our new curriculum. Okay. So pushing it forward a little bit what in a year or two what do what do you think the typical experience you know how do you think this is going to change how we are training these medical these you know training that going to be medical professionals. My big hope is that from a procedural standpoint we go to voice right because you need to have the conversation live.

That's the That's the And the uh you know just the the vocal AI stuff is improving so quickly that that shouldn't be too much of a problem then but go on I mean at this point you can hardly tell the difference right? Yeah. Um, so as far as like how it's put into medical training, right now we're just using this as preparatory material, but as we move forward, I mean it would not be beyond reason to have a teaalth AI virtual person who can talk to me and simulate a full scenario of teleaalth

patient care management by the end of this year. Yeah, that I mean that makes a lot of sense. So I saw the very first uh my very first experience of this down in Nvidia a couple of years ago and I I made completely wrong conclusion. I said this is amazing. It's going to change the way we do interactions going to I thought it was going to change therapy particularly between patients and doctors. I think it still will. Um I my that was the wrong conclusion. The right conclusion was go out and buy more

Nvidia stock which I didn't do but that's that was a separate one. So um and then what are your goals for this tool? I mean obvious without without putting you on the spot there's a lot there's a lot of medical education going on out there and it hasn't changed that much in many decades in some cases right we know there the simulation if you just watch you know how uh if you if you just I mean I happen to have watched Top Gun relatively recently and then I saw the F1 movie and if you look at people who

are you know in real world that the amount of simulation that those Deon Dyson you know trainees in pilot and drivers and whatever using is tremendous, right? The amount of simulation done compared to the actual race will fly is I'm big. I don't what the the power is but it's a lot right or 10 to one or whatever. Um and they're using the net testing scenarios and we know that AI itself is supporting people in testing scenarios for simulations. So, um what's your sense about how this

is going to um go forward both as how medical professionals are going to use it and then what do you think you're doing with it? Yeah. So, you you touched on a few things there and I think this is this is a really critical point that you brought up with simulation. I simulation hours in pilot training are massive and we don't have nearly the same amount of hours in healthcare training and yet we're going out and treating thousands of patients every single day. Right? So there's a huge mismatch there. Um our

university we are very heavy users of simulation. Every single course I teach is simulation based. Um we are always trying to get our students as much experiential learning as we possibly can and simulation is a big component of that. Now, that's just speaking for physical therapy education. I know nursing does even more in our nursing advanced practice nursing programs. They are constantly doing simulation. That's basically all they do. Um, but as far as medical schools, it's not enough. It's

just not enough. And that is a resource problem. It's an access problem and it's a faculty time problem. There's a lot of components that go into that. Sim planning is a heavy lift, especially if you're going to make it a quality good scenario. I'm also a certified simulation healthcare educator. So I I build a lot of this stuff together. And all I see hopefully as we move forward is that AI has the potential to offload that process a bit and make it more accessible. But I want to be very clear

that the human in the loop still matters more than anything else because it's still the professor who has to make sure that the scenario is relevant, accurate, you know, predictable enough that it's gradable or at least formatively able to give feedback on it. And only the human expert can do that because the computer AI has not practiced clinically. I mean, good for it. It can pass the, you know, board exam. Great. That's a multiple choice test. That's not patient care. And diagnosis is easy. I I saw this

quote the other day on LinkedIn. Diagnosis is easy. Disposition is war. And AI doesn't do that part. Right. On the other hand, you've got on your uh behind your glass shuttle there, you've got the old format of how we used to transfer knowledge in in uh in in in the world, but in healthcare, textbooks, right? And and people were teaching journals. Journals. But you know you would use these things to teach. What what's your sense about about you know the the use the the growth and the use of this type

of AI and other you know more teaching tools? Yeah. As a sort of share of the activ and and educators um as a share of how you know health profession is going to be taught. Yeah. So with with AI, it's really unique in that we are co-learning AI with our students, right? Like it came out when we were all here. We are learning how to use it, why to use it, and when to use it together. So I think that's very hard to predict. I know students are copying textbooks into AI and saying, "Give me the Spark Notes

summary of this." And I'm old, so I said Spark Notes, right? Like they don't even know what that is anymore. they just put it into chat GPT and say give me the summary. Um I I you know digital books are obviously what most people use now at this point. I think that there could be like AI read it to me but the primary way that we translate knowledge to others is still by writing it down or recording it. So I don't see that going away. But it might not be my face saying it to you. It might be my avatar because

then I don't have to be there to do it right. my avatar to do that for me and AI can make it look as real as possible. And then for this particular set of of uh tools that you're building out, it's just within your university at the moment. Do you intend to build that into a company that you sell to other educators? What what's what's your sense of where this is going to end up? Or will every or will every physical therapy professor in America be building their own version of this?

That sounds like a bit of a duplication method, but you know, you know, in healthcare we duplicate a lot, but we are very against it. Um, so obviously there's some IP issues, right? Like I can't take what I did and sell it to somebody else. Um, because that's that's owned by my university. Come to a deal with your university about that. Many universities have got similar arrangements. You know, I think I need to add my legal team. I can I can point you at plenty pl pl pl pl pl pl pl pl pl pl pl pl pl pl pl pl

pl pl pl pl pl pl pl pl pl pl pl pl pl pl pl pl pl pl pl pl pl pl pl pl plenty of licensing offices all over the place and how much they get and how much you get and what but I mean do you think there is later I I I I guess the question is I mean I don't know where you are in the planning of this but I just immediately go to there'll be there'll be a company organization there'll be the equivalent of a textbook right somebody published that textbook behind you and around somebody paid money for it and

there's a business behind that on the world and I you know they will behind this too, right? Yeah. We we have an education focused branch of our professional association and they have a repository of teaching materials that we can use and a lot of them are simulationbased and I have a feeling that we may be opening up kind of an AI repository as well and that would reduce a lot of the duplication because anyone who is a PT educator can just go and get that and then use it and that's what it's for. We then get a

scholarly product out of it. So that makes a lot of sense because that's required for us to teach. So right right and uh not directly related to this but since I have you and you are deep in this world what's your sense about the change in PT that has happened and is happening with all of these virtual PT and now increasingly AI run virtual PT companies obviously you have Hinge as public and sword other guys and a bunch of other competitors in different countries what's your sense of how that's changing

the experience for the PTS sort of out out in the field and how they're doing and and what about the you And is this a good thing for patients? Is this improving care? Give me a sense about where you think, you know, the new form of virtual BT is. Yeah. Yeah. So, like most things, I think it has its really great advantages and its really terrible disadvantages. From from a legal scope of practice perspective, that is not a PT. The PT behind it is the PT, right? and if I'm not getting services from a PT, it

better not be build as physical therapy because that's fraud and that's illegal and you will lose your license and all of those things. Um, so I I'm also very much an advocacy PT. I'm going to protect my license and my practice. Um, on the other side of that coin though is access, right? Like now we can get PT to someone who lives 200 miles from the closest hospital or PT clinic. I can take someone through their joint replacement rehab virtually whereas otherwise they wouldn't have had any. So

I think that it has amazing ability to get people what they need where they're at as long as it's used properly. Yeah. And I think that the the u you know the the the folks who run those companies and I've interviewed them all would tell you that there is have said it that you know there is a physical therapist licensed you know behind the scenes. Yeah. A lot of the things that they are replacing is that every physical therapist knows that they see somebody in a clinic or in the hospital, they

don't get discharged. They get they traditionally got a piece of paper that said do these exercises they they never did. And if you can track them and also, you know, use the technology now to figure out if they're leaning to the right, lean to the left, and this kind of stuff. And you know, and then you can sort of ping have the AI both monitor them, ping them, and also, you know, get a human in the loop later. I I I I actually you know I think there's a lot of promise there to expand

it because I mean PT is one of those things where where where you know it's tremendously good if people do it people don't do it you know we all we all know that the you know it's the same as exercise right it's very good if we do it and whatever you can do to sort of push people down that path and I think the integration I mean I I've never run into a PT who said this is a terrible idea that you know you should only do it and only do under the guise of a human in a in a PT center because they know

they don't do it and and uh you know you can measure stuff using these tools that actually it's very hard to measure in real life right the balance and angles and flection and whatever that you can do now off the phone on the screen yeah definitely so I think there's a lot you know there's a lot to be said for that and what I think is yet to happen my commentary is that that those companies there isn't yet kind of and this is welcome to America There isn't yet this sort of integration

between you have somebody who has a maybe as a primary care doctor maybe doesn't hurt their back hurt their knee hurt their shoulder whatever somehow ends up either with a surgeon or not with a surgeon goes through there's no real clear path right now for someone to get to where tends to be a lot of PT happens around surgery and after surgery and you know frequently you could probably use PT to avoid surgery in some ways so I think that entire sort of flow flow of the patient from so there's

something going wrong I need to be do something preventative slash you know what can I do to I felt my back what can I can do about it we don't have that sort of concierge wraparound service there are some people trying to do it but that's the bit that I think where we need to integrate all of these different things the technology the PT experience you know yes there may be people who do need surgery there people who don't that that whole thing needs to be fixed but honestly you can

say that about any aspect of American health care right we don't good primary care. We don't do good followup after surgery. We don't do good care coordination between sites, you know. So, no, we don't. No, we don't. And what you're describing is really the role of the patient navigator, right? And and PTS serve that role all the time in various systems and even in insurance companies and and usually not being paid for it. Yeah. Yeah. Or not well enough anyway to know the system like that. Um, but just

as a professional plug, direct access to physical therapy is available in all 50 states to some level or another. So, if your back hurts, you can go directly to a physical therapist. We will help you figure out where to go from there. We will be your patient navigator and we are happy to do it. All right. Brilliant. Well, I've been speaking with Dr. Katie Brockway. She Brockway, sorry. She is the uh professor at University of St. Augustine health services of physical reach and uh she showed us a really interesting

simulation tool that she's built for AI. We'll see how this goes, but I suspect that you'll find that uh you know your tools will be used by a lot more people than just in your university pretty soon is is my guess. But uh uh congrats on what you've done and looking forward to seeing how it develops. Thank you. Thank you so much.