Title: Dr Kimmie Ng discusses young onset colorectal cancer
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p9qt68lG5sA
Language: en
Duration: 35:31
Upload Date: Jun 23, 2025

Transcription:

[Music] Matthew Hall GCB spotlight with old friend Roy Shamberg who uh has as a new thing going on. So Roy forever uh was uh was CEO of American well am sorry American well god I'm old I'm talking about by the old name uh which is uh still going and you're still now roy ghost right you're still on the board but you're no longer the CEO correct correct correct okay so you're still associated with and you have a new thing uh which we'll talk about in a second so uh let's catch up quickly about amwell

uh you have a uh a new CEO new management team there and tell me a bit about the company, how it's doing and what what what what was the story there other than you've been there a very very long time. Yeah. Well, the story I mean so I I think some people may talk about Mwell and maybe potentially Teddoc as kind of the the companies that made teleah health become a thing. This was of course before COVID made the world want the thing right and and I think at that point you know coming out of COVID

it became you know commoditized which which has on one hand it's an extremely rewarding recognition because it means that we've done something right it is and this will forever be part of healthcare on the flip side when you talk about you know financial markets getting commoditized is a bit of a different thing um but I think that the you the the the one thing that I would say is that you know tellahalth is not stopping you know it's evolving in its role I think that the the notion of

using tellah health to solve excess is there um but one of the things that it has done is it it it opened the door for health care to set up shop within people's own environment through technology and now that that door is open I think that the next generation of teller health applications and tele Health capabilities is going to be about so what else can come through the door? What are the disciplines? What are the programs? What other ways of supporting individuals so that they can you know

have better well-being but also potentially manage their their their healthcare reality better so they don't have to consume much more expensive resources where the healthcare buildings are. Um and I think that's exactly what we're seeing and this is yet kind of another transformation in our understanding of tele health and digital uh health care and that is what uh you know what amwell is marching into you know keeping up with the times so I'm not doing justice but that gives you a

sense okay so uh tell me who's who's running amwell now and uh today being a day that we're seeing a another not yet profitable company finally going public in atmosphere the day we're recording this. Um, give me your sense of the f you know and obviously the financial markets have been super tough on Anwell on super tough on on on Teddoc and uh almost every other digital health company with the exception of Doximity basically. Um, and now but we have seen Hinge go out and do successful well and

profitable in a different way and now Armada is going to go out and see what it see what the appetite is like for investors for for a new but not yet profitable company. give me a flavor of where Amwell is and where you think the market is just on the on the financial side. I I think I think Amwell is and you know I'm not I'm not managing the company. US is running the company. Edido, my brother, is running the company. He's been the longtime co-CEO. Now he's the CEO of the company. Um I'm

I'm executive as chairman of the board. So that's more of a governance, you know, role than anything else. Mwell um got to a point where it operates tellah health for the for a a very large chunk of the healthcare infrastructure for this country both on the pair side as well as on the health system side as well as now growingly on the government side and one of the things that we've always liked to do is to be you know stay out of trouble. We are we are a cog in the wheel. We're not the story. So

the brand of Amwell is really something that you don't see very much because you're interacting with the brands of you know the respective payers health system and so on. I think that is um an unbelievable infrastructure for that next revolution of tellahalth of having a lot of different products of healthcare of digital healthcare coming over the tele health platform into the reality of respectively members patients you know uh servicemen and so on. Um and and one of the things that you know

we've done is you know we we didn't we didn't blink. We understood that the technology has to refresh and evolve. We've invested enormous amount of time and effort and resources in building converge which is the next generation brand new AI compatible you know infrastructure for telealth distribution of healthcare. So Mwell is in a ripe position both because it is already deeply penetrated into the market has been serving those customers exceptionally well over the years and is speaking the language of digital

healthcare going forward not going backwards. The market still thinks of tellahalth as a covid technology. It still thinks of it as oh this is useful when everybody had to stay home and couldn't couldn't go out and the hospitals were closed. I think that sentiment is beginning to fade. I think people are beginning to understand that this is really a foundation to a lot of other things. So I think that you know funnily enough I think the future is bright. So tell me what you think about the uh the new uh you know the prospects

for more IPOs Allah Hinge and Amada and I think the flavor of those is the first I mean obviously a lot of different flavors of IPOs and we've seen some people doing you know onlineies like him doing well and and others but most of the first flavor of IPOs was kind of infrastructure plays you're talking about and now we're having you know service delivery companies in different specialties like hospital msk or or in in a mother's case uh you know pre-diabetes and other stuff come to the

market there's a whole bless of mental health companies who presumably are going to some of them already public but there's a whole bunch more who are somewhere they're going to have to figure out a way to get out so you know you which you know are are using tellah health primarily as well so give give me your your sense as to you know does the whole industry get a bit more respect or is it still going to be that sort of you as this other stuff grows or is it only if you have AI tagged to your name that

anybody cares? You know I all you know I'm I'm a little biased because of what we're going to talk about but I would say that I think that there is a window of time where all those digital healthcare interventions are going to continue to generate some value and in the eyes of people are worth investing in and so on and we'll do some IPOs maybe this year or next year. Unfortunately for all of us in the healthcare business, health care is a knowledge business. I'm not talking about the bluecollar part of

healthcare where people do physical caregiving and everything else, but the vast majority of healthcare is is is the transmission of healthcare understanding and using it to care for people to instruct medications and surgeries and everything else. We are very white collar and I think the name of the game is AI replacing most of it. I I I'm echoing things. I'm a small potato in a world of the Sam Almans of the world and the Eric Schmidts of the world and so on. But I can't not other than echo their

sentiment that I think we are looking at a sea change way faster than many people understand. I think that people are stealing having the averse reaction to talking to a bot or talking to a computer. But what would happen very very quickly is that all of those services that are running AI are going to become accessible and affordable and then people will have to say yeah I don't like talking to a bot but will I pay 10 times to talk to someone that's wearing a white coat. So I think go ahead.

Well, I think I mean I think that you know that's that's interesting and I'm still you know of the opinion that that some of this stuff's taken way longer than it should do and there are some areas and I'm thinking of mental health as well. I know you you guys bought Converser as part of your Amwell journey you know to which which is essentially a conversational bot um where where this stuff has taken you know is has taken longer. with a lot of simple stuff that you're now hearing a lot of discussions

about could be done but there's also a lot of very intense knowledge and how the human works with the with the computer is you know on the provider side is still very much to be determined but I think that there there's you know you can you can't but see the massive possibilities for both expanding access and saving efficiency across the board so with that you now have a new thing called Eileen Eileen AI is your uh new new What I don't know is how I mean you've announced it but I mean I don't know how

much you've been working on it behind the scenes, how long what you've got. Just give me a flavor of what is Eileen intended to do and how much you done so far. Sure. So um I in a way Eileen recognizes the fact first of all that there is a there's a large chunk of the population that really hasn't caught up with the digital health revolution and that is you know as you can expect some of the the older cohorts right I mean the the aging experience of American hasn't changed dramatically because of that you

know giant fluctuations or or massive waves of digital healthcare and you know coming out of of Amwell that's always been kind of an egg nagging question at the back of our head. We actually talked about it a couple of times over the years adoption engagement all of that fun stuff. The problem is that this is not an academic question. There is a reality. People call it a demographical cliff. They call it the silver tsunami. Whatever different names for it. There is just a biological truth where the cohorts of elders

we are going to be there soon enough are unproportionately growing versus the population in the next 20 years to the point that aging in western society not only the the United States the aging cohorts of 70s and 80s are going to triple in size in comparison to their current stand in the population. We don't have anywhere near the caregiving resources to take care of them. And actually the sad truth is that as the as the elder ages balloon in size, the caregiving profession is actually shrinking. People

don't want to do it anymore. You know, it's and frankly, it's a really hard job. It doesn't pay much. It's emotionally and physically draining. So, we have a perfect storm right in front of us. And the one thing that I would say that has nothing to do with Eileen, just an observation, a logical observation is that if one thing is going in this direction in a crazy speed and what you need for it is going down, the labor that is supposed to is going down, we need something else.

Absolutely. working and you know in the last you know 30 years usually technology has been that one instrument the one kind of dark horse that you can bring into something to give you some breathing room and the question is now how is technology going to give us a breathing room in caregiving so that's kind of the the background story for for this and and I I just point out I just point out that it's actually worse in Korea, Japan and China than it is in Western Europe and the US at least still has

immigration and well maybe we have immigration I don't know what's going what's going to go on there given the current regime but uh you know uh we have a better demographic table even though it's bad than many other parts of the uh developed world urgent crisis without without making any kind of a political statement I I would say that the uh the new immigration policies are probably not going to add to the ranks of the caregiving I think that's a safe a safe statement. So I think we have a problem and so the

question is really about about how technology is going is going to step in there and this is where the the the focus of Eileen which is the new company is really at. Um Eileen is Eileen's purpose is to extend the period of self-sufficiency of elders at home. And what that means is and I want to be very specific. It means that if you are an aging person who is still in the period of life of invincibility, you know, you're an empty neester, you travel the world, you do this, you do that, you take, you know, knitting, I

don't know what it is that you do, but if you're at that stage of life, you don't need anything. Also, if you've arrived at the point of your aging reality where you need physical help, I mean, you can't feed yourself or you can't bathe or you have to get up with with with support or or you fall down or whatever it is, when you are at the point that you need physical help next to you, that is also not where Eileen is going to help you. But there is this entire span of time

which is actually very long where the best way to describe it where fragility sets in. Where you beginning to notice you and your family and potentially your caregivers are beginning to notice a wobbly reality around you where things are getting very a little scary or a little less safe or or could go along, you know, a different way. And this is the part where if we are able to support that period of life and to extend it to help the family to help the elder feel more reassured in that reality

rather than begin to consume those scarce caregiving resources then not only from a humanitarian standpoint but also from an actuarial standpoint you have reduced the consumption of resources that are incredibly expensive. So there is a there is a health care ROI to allowing elders to stay home longer. So now comes the question, so how do you increase the self-sufficiency? And you have to also especially figure out the notion that increasing self-sufficiency means that elders are are are more at

home, more alone. So the lonely issue, loneliness issue is going to even further expand. And maybe I'll just say this and you know me you know me well enough you know through the battles of tellahalth and everything else I I do like to do things if I can slaughter a couple of sacred cows that makes it more interesting and I think probably the one the one approach that Eileen is taking that is core to to its direction is the assumption that we are more likely to be able to influence and reassure the life of an

elder by establishing familiarity and companionship with them than if we were to introduce authoritarian voice into the life by telling them what they need to do. And that's really important because the vast majority of what healthcare does and its age tech derivatives is using what we know the elder needs to do to make them do that. And there's different ways. You can send them reminders. You can give them an electronic pill box. You can put something that gifies things. You can put a device with an orb on their desk

and everything else. But we all know that all of these different instrumentations that just tell elders what they need to do, let me be kind in saying, has a limited effect on our society. And I'm really trying to be kind here. It didn't move the needle in in in a certain way. So Eileen starts by saying, well, let's let's partner on the life level first. Make that the goal. And then if we are able to generate this regular presence in their life that is valuable that generates companionship, camaraderie,

intimacy, then we actually have a voice that we could use in order to do the right things. We know what the right things they're not that part is not very complicated. Now to do this you have to establish engagement. You have to establish evergreen value, evergreen interest. And that is something that until I don't know two years ago was just not possible. You know, you couldn't do it without people, you know, and so on. But we all know that there's an avalanche of new technologies that that are surfacing

and maturing and reinventing themselves literally on a weekly basis now that is beginning to light up the tooling that we need in order to do this. And they are at the very cutting edge. We're not talking about AI, we're talking about empathetic AI, we're talking about not only natural language processing, we're talking about sentiment analysis. These are very, very cutting edge elements, but they're becoming very, very real. So now you end up at a point where and I'm just being aware of our our time our

precious time together. The best way to look at how this approach to utilizing artificial intelligence is different is I would say for the most part I'm generalizing AI has been utilized to learn trades. you you take a large language model and you teach it. You feed it with everything so that it can be a doctor or it can be a lawyer or it can be an accountant or it can be a call center agent that helps you fix something or whatever it is. And he's very good at doing this. What we're saying here is let's turn

this thing on its head and instead of feeding the world into it to learn a trade, let's utilize AI to learn a person, one person. And maybe the best way to to think about it is imagine that you you're having a conversation, you know, with with the elder, with a senior person. The magic actually isn't in the conversation itself. is that when you hang up, when you conclude the conversation, the AI engine kicks into place and say, "What have I learned about Matthew that I didn't know when we started the

conversation?" and use that information to replenish the understanding to influence how the next conversation is going to be with you. And what else you would be interested and making sure that that kind of selfrefreshing model of familiarity is at the center of all of this because that is the purpose. Not telling you that you need to take a medication. That's piece of cake. That's not the problem. To do this, I'll just say two more things about it. To do this, you have to first of all

communicate in a way that with elders that doesn't create a learning curve. And even though the back end of Eileen is extreme cutting edge AI, NLP and so on, the experiential end is the phone. Not only the phone, it's Eileen constantly calling. The reality is that we expect the engagement model to be extremely one-sided. We don't ask anybody. Elder doesn't even have a Wi-Fi. As long as we are able to generate vivacious, interesting, empathetic, and meaningful touch points by calling

saying Eileen is calling you. Then we have staying power. And the the the part that is of course you know also critical here is that because we have that ability to create a regular cadence of interaction. We have a granularity of observation that is really really hard to mimic with labor based caregiving. We know we can notice things that are subtle. To give you an example if every if last week all of the calls were answered by four rings. So we called and it took four rings, but this week for some reason it's 15 rings until

the elder picks up the phone. That lethargic response may be of some meaning. And then Eileen has the ability to autonomously escalate. Escalate depending on the level of gravity. escalate by communicating to the kids, by communicating to a caregiver, or by essentially queuing up to an annual urgent care and have a clinician who's already briefed by by the AI call up essentially and show up in front of that of that elder. So not doing it justice but this approach of saying let's build health care and well-being

companionship to elders by going bottom up rather than the paternalistic healthc care view of let's do top down is fundamentally how Eileen is different and that's probably the reason why the New Journal of Medicine actually decided to publish it and did so last week even though uncharacteristically it doesn't exist. It's a very very early, not exactly doesn't exist, but it's a very very early stage, you know, of Eileen as a corporation. Um, but it's coming, it's

coming to light to a theater near you soon enough. So, so the the the piece that I think is is super interesting is is you know I think you're right that you can imagine we can all imagine the multiple different things you can build on top of this in terms of prompts and reminders and surveillance and you know there there's a whole world of people um trying to trying to put uh you know radar in the house to to check if people are falling and video there's all all kinds of stuff going

right and You can imagine uh that and you can and you're essentially saying we're going to build a platform for that. We're going to build a an intelligent agent which knows everything that's going on and that the uh senior wants to wants to communicate with and it's going to be a big part of the surveillance but also the the the prompting into different services and you know I can I know exactly what where I can imagine exactly where you're thinking about going and different

things are going to have to happen there and you mentioned some of them already right like maybe calling a doctor if there's an issue or what have you. So I guess the the the the next sort of question is on the other hand you're talking about a big behavior change and there aren't I mean there are now people who are like you know in love with the replica AI bot talking to talking to chat GPS their therapist but this is not a mainstream thing yet. There are a lot of people using chat GBT, but most of us

are using it or Gemini for like basically search, right? Because it's it's now better a search than than than we are, you know, and you can tell to go and do a comparison between three different companies you never heard of and it'll come back and tell you about them and it's great and you know, you used to have to hack around for for a while. This isn't even the sort of the deep research tools they have. So I guess the the question is how are you going to how do you envisionage

the socialization of having a companion for people who don't understand AI maybe lonely but don't really know understand you know right now being told when they go to the doctor by the way we're going to be using this ambient scribing is that okay you know we're at that level of introduction how how are you going to get there quickly enough to make a difference with the speed of the problem that you spoke about earlier on so I think you you mentioned mentioned you mentioned the two ingredients you

know first of all and and by the way there's a lot of correlation to tell health in this sense tellah health when it started never pretended to be the best healthcare you could find but it ended up being incredibly useful where the best healthcare you could find was not accessible or not available to you and that's when you use tellahalth there is a you know even in the United States today there are 18 million elders who live alone Sure. And it doesn't mean that they don't have families. It just

means that they're not exactly around them. When when you have that kind of reality and your option is to say, "I give up and go into an assisted living or or you know skilled nursing facility, you you look for something else to help." And so we're not talking about how you and I would feel now about talking to a boat. you're talking about the reality of people who are faced with a very very very bad choice in front of them and this may help them kick that can for later on and that is incredibly

valuable in in a lot of different ways. So first of all the thirst for something that will help you to remain self-sufficient is not to be undertaken lightly. The second thing is I don't think that Eileen is something that you buy off Amazon. I also don't think that Eileen is something that gets prescribed to you by your doctor. I actually think that Eileen is introduced into your life as an elder by your kids, by your very very close trusted circle of caregivers, which may be a combination of a couple

of professional caregivers and your kids and so on and so forth, who need a breathing room because they know that with your escalating needs, they just can't keep up and they can't pay the growingly high premium of anything that would resemble what they can give their parents. today. So Eileen steps into the life of an elder as a an extension of their son or their daughter who says, "Mom, dad, I'm going to I'm going to introduce you to a service that will help me take care of you, that will help

me keep tabs on you because when I'm traveling for work or whatever it is, it's still going to check up with you three times or four times a day and let me know that you're okay." And oh by the way, it's actually going to check up on me and let you know what I'm doing so that we can continue to be connected and it's always watchful and if there's any problem, it knows how to find me. And you can change the verbiage, but the principle here is that it it gets introduced into the reality of

elders as an additional bandwidth of the caregiving that they trust, not as an alternative to the caregiving they trust. And hopefully that gives you a sense. Yeah. No, I think that that makes a lot of sense. And and the the real question is going to be, you know, uh h how useful is it and how accepted is it? And I don't know, you know, um, calling someone, there might be people who want to be called 10 times a day and there might be people who don't want to be called at all and it's going to have to

figure that out, right? Um, yeah, but that that's that's that part is is easy. I'm telling you, the the orchestration, the mechanics are not the issue. The issue is do you have the intelligence to keep the relevancy evergreen? Yeah. So on that point, two things. one is um sounding very much voice-based. Uh I don't know how I haven't looked at the sort of the latest version of this demographics, but I suspect that if you look at the rest of the world, it's textbased. And so I don't know and are

you are you going to do both? Is it going to be voice primarily? What do you think the secret source is for getting that engagement? And what are the tools you're going to be laying out? Are they in in that? And then we'll talk about what it's going to talk about next. Yeah, I think I think that the this isn't so much about voice. I think that the engagement model has to be acceptingly unilateral. That's more important. You need to create a comforting experience that doesn't make an doesn't

create an expectation from the elder to do something in order to keep the companionship going. And I think it will fail if you if you do it differently. So I think that the bedrock of the interaction is picking up the phone. That's it for with a with a known caller ID that your son said is going to call. And and I think that that creates the springboard. I talk about the fact both in the New England Journal of Medicine article and and in other places that other modalities of interaction that move from

asynchronous to synchronous to otherwise with the incorporation of data that's coming from a validic blood pressure cuff and an you know intelligent refrigerator and so on and so forth. These are all additional layers of insight that influence the communication that Eileen does, but they're not the primary mode of communication. And we need to we need to finally divorce from the idea that a relationship is cemented in one communication modality or the other. We are sophisticated enough to

understand that you can be here and drop this and move on and continue there and that at different times different individuals some would like text and some would not like text and avatars on TVs maybe some for the you know right for other people and the same person if they're having a really really painful day you know may have very short conversations or may only text they don't want to talk to anybody these are not complex technologically we just need to understand the sensitivities and the

behavioral implications of those and we can we arrived at that point that we can do those things. Yeah. And I and I've been thinking actually that uh the the the smart speaker which has not yet really got tied into AI and the big language models is a is actually potentially very strong for the for this kind of companionship. And uh right now, you know, people use their Alexexas to I mean, they didn't go quite where people thought it was going to go because they use it primarily just to to to do timing

for cooking and uh and play music, but you know, uh I can easily imagine it's it's relatively trivial to set up a house so that this could be attached to smart speaker. So it could call you on the phone, could be in the smart speaker you can talk to back forth and then you're at the point where can you really have a a a permanent companion who's there on call when you need them, not on call when you aren't, but who can ping you when they when they need it. My my wife now has a spark speaker telling my

kids that they have to leave the house to go to school and stuff like that. It started to give these are not these are not instructions they're particularly interested in in following but they're children. They have to deal with that. But but but I'm I think you know you see what we're getting. We can see what we're getting there. I I I just want to say one thing about what you just said. There's you know there's definitely excitement about every anything ambient and I think it has has a bright future.

But funnily enough I had a conversation you know Eileen is raising capital. It's really really young. I had a conversation with someone who runs a large national real estate company that specializes in senior communities. And what he said, we just had coffee and what he said, I want to build Eileen into the walls of every unit in my facilities because if I can tell people when you buy a unit here, you actually have a partner in your home and there if it's built into the wall and ambient you

can walk around and talk to it and it becomes a regular presence in your life. What he said is not only that I can change the staffing that I need in order to run the facility, I differentiate the experience that I'm offering to the point that I can either mark it up or populate it much faster than I thought I could. And this is a very I'm not saying cynical, but this is a very real application that frankly I didn't even write down in the business plan of Eileen. I think that's you know later

on. This notion that an ambient present that doesn't work on labor economics can become a meaningful watchful interesting partner in the life of people who who lack partnership is inevitable it's inevitable. I agree with you and one of Eileen May's jobs will be stopping all the other ambient bots calling offering either offering wanted or unwanted services man you know you know managing those we obviously you know we you already see that very early on sort of the calendar box and like you know people we we're

just getting to that but you can tell that's going to be I mean I'm the am the amount of companies I run into who are you know calling patients to offer programs or to deal with just in healthcare, right, to to enroll them in something or just to deal with their their drugs or to try to schedule something or what have you. You know, you're going to need a there going to be so many of them calling someone's got to manage that and actually right these are all the I want you to do something

therefore I'm calling you to sign up or I'm reminding you to do this and that. That's the top down the paternalistic healthcare that we've listen I would have hired Johnny Ies you know this campaign but it looks like Sam Alman got him already. He he may have paid more than you were willing to pay or had. You you haven't seen the over subscription of Eileen. Who knows? That's good. Um, no, I'm I'm with you. So, so that's fascinating. Uh, so Den, tell me, you just mentioned you're out

raising money. You're you're you're you've been working on this behind the scenes for what, a year or so? Is that right? Just about. Just about. Okay. and and and give me a sense of where is the tech so far where when you like you to actually start showing the world what it looks like and what it does. I mean because you're not the only person who's thought about companions and as you mentioned things are changing quite quickly. On the other hand you don't want to you

don't want to come up and it doesn't strike me this is one of the things where you need to you know be ashamed of what you ship or whatever Reed Hoffman used to say. You probably have to get this kind of right given the audience you're talking about. So tell me a bit about where you think the market introduction is going to when when and and how the market introduction is going to work. So to be completely transparent, you know, so I I I'm fortunate to be in a position to see the

company myself, but I'm I'm actively raising the the the series A, right? So in a normal way, nothing happened, right? We only have a business plan. You know me well enough, that's not exactly the case. Um, so yes, there is a technology that's being built by a good couple of people who like to steal horses. I know enough about scalable productized technology that there is a lot that needs to be done from a proving point to a to a scalable point. Uh, and that's what the series is going is going to be about.

But uh I'm pretty certain that the some level of experiencing of Eileen could happen before Sirius A is even finalized. Um but I I I want to be honest about it you know like like the buildout of tellah health. What this introduces is a transformational approach to caregiving. It will take time. This is not something like tellahalth makes perfect sense in day one. It still takes 10 years until it becomes you know everybody's uh phone application. Um but I think that there is there's tremendous momentum and what

I found is that people get it you know that the right people who have that deep ability to support a transformational healthcare uh change are they they get it quickly. They understand I I I admit that the publication was very helpful in galvanizing the idea that this is really not your run-of-the-mill startup. Um, but I I would say that you will be able to experience Eileen in short order. I just leave it at that. Just to be fair, I mean, this is pre-closing of series A. And I'm I'm still waiting on the

cellophane paper and the SLAs. Yes. I I think uh if I recall rightly when we first met at Amwell you done a series A then you be there hadn't been put it this way there was not as much raised then as there was raised later that is significant a there and you know and we changed the world so that was good so let me let me ask you then about the sort of the the the technological question which I've been wrestling with right which is and I wrote I read a piece about AI not long ago a couple

weeks back basically saying I don't know how you buy this stuff if you're a healthcare facility because you you have people inside your organization at Stampin and Mount Sinai and CES and wherever else building stuff on Claude and you know Claude and and and Open AI. You have a bunch of people with with point solutions you know coming in and trying to fix one thing in radiology or one thing in notes or one thing in ambient describing or whatever. And then in the middle of it, you have your EMR

of record who says they're going to do all this stuff as with AI and bringing AI to you, especially with Epic, right? You have a similar one of the things was is how good do the big LLMs just get? Does this stuff just just happen automatically out of them? And I guess that's kind of the question the question for you is that do you think that uh uh an open AAI or an XAI or whatever one of the one of the different uh players who who are you know buying all the NVIDIA chips and you know putting in the

nuclear power plant next door to run the data centers and all this kind of stuff. Are they going to be developing a generic companion bot and is that going to be the competition or are you going to be something that let are people like Eileen and other competitors of you who have kind of a focus around senior living which is healthcare but a lot of other stuff as well. Uh you know is there going to be a vibrant marketplace of people lying on top of these bigger LLMs? How do you think that all plays

out? I think I I'll give you two quick two quick answers. Um, one and I want to I want to plagiarize what Sam Alman said. He said there is there are two ways to deploy AI. You can jump take and license an LLM and then feed it with all of your documentation, all of the training data that you have and you're becoming very very specific to what you do and then you have you're married with it. That that is your product forever and ever and ever. And that is what he says 98% of the companies out there are doing. They're

teaching LLMs to do what they do. And what he said, the right way to do it is to actually ride the wave of the evolution of AI, which means that you actually have to figure out how the smarts of what you do are not inside the LLM, but outside of the LLM, so that as new LLMs are coming out every week, you're going to be able to be the best out there. you know, continue to be the best, which he said less than 2% of the companies are actually doing this, which is what I thought everybody's going to

be doing. And I I I fully subscribe to that statement. So the way that and that ties into Eileen and to your question because I believe that the future of this is not going to be by one company with a killer LLM or one company with a killer product. I believe that you will inevitably have a diversified world of services that are utilizing AI in some some shape or form. And the winning experience, I'm not talking about who wins the money here, but the winning experience will be the one that will be

able to utilize the right AI service for the right task. Specifically in healthcare for example I don't want Eileen to be talking about the acute recovery from you know triple bypass but I know that hypocratic AI can and that's what they do for a living. So the ability to navigate patients through those electronic resources wins the day. And I think you know to some degree the LLMs are a little the question about the LLM is a little bit like at the beginning of teleahalth people were saying well so

who's going to do the best video conferencing and if you do video conferencing are you going to kill tele health and we know now over and over and over again that the video conferencing is the cherry on top the complexity is understanding availability and lenture and coverage and you know eligibility and payment and deductibles and you know whatever credentiing and 50 million other elements that are needed to be internalized before you even begin to understand how to orchestrate tele health services. I think there's a lot

of analogy to that also in the model of AI caregiving. Um and it's not going to go away. You know life life is complex. Well that's certainly a true statement in the last part. Um, no. And I No, I I think I think you're I think you're dead right because um the the ability to figure out, you know, the the growth of the underlying technology and then integrate that into the other technologies. I was kind of kidding and we were joking about keeping the other keeping the other calls out,

but you are going to want to know which one calls to bring in and where to bring in the the human and where to bring in the the inexual. And we're seeing that play out right now with doctors, you know, using church EPT and using open evidence and all these other all these other tools, right, which which are coming really fast at them and sort of replacing what they used to have a book and they up to date and now they have all these other ways of figuring it out. And the blend between the human and the

AI um is something that, you know, we're going to continue to work on. But as you said, you said you said in this piece and said in your article, you know, we still have a lot of people who want to be doctors. Maybe not enough. you don't have many people who want to be caregivers especially given what's coming up. So it is an area where where we need a lot need a lot of help. We do we need much more help and the the unfortunate inconvenient truth is that we we won't feel it until we get into

that position. The unfortunate truth is that ungraceful aging is a quiet is a silent problem because most of the people that experience it don't have a voice. By the way, they do cost us through our taxes because we still have to pay 25% of our GDP to care for them. So, it's a it's a bizarre situation where nobody's saying that anything is wrong, but everybody's unknowingly quietly paying to solve the problem that is unsolvable. So, anyway, it's a it's upon us. Yeah. No, and it goes back

to what you said earlier. We we were kidding before we got on on the air. I'm not kidding about, you know, we should be building a, you know, an elder care facility that we can all go live in and want want to design what we like. We have to think about designing a better end of life and sorry, better end of last stage of not last stage of life, last stage of of of of living, you know, which and and by the way, meanwhile, all these people talking about longevity and keeping us alive to 120. So, this

becomes more and more on point. Not sure I'm so keen about that one. We'll see. Anyway, have other issues. All right. All right. I've been talking with Roy Shernburgg. He is just starting on a new thing, Eileen AI. Roy, really excited to see how this goes. And uh come back and uh I want to be one of the first places you show the world how how Eileen actually interacts. And hopefully I won't be theoretically old enough to need it by then. No, no. Don't be too long. All right. Thanks, Roy. Thanks for your

time. Great, man. Thank you.