Title: Elevare Law launches!
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WdBtBT2D8j4
Language: en
Duration: 00:50:26
Upload Date: Apr 11, 2025

Transcription:

[Music] Matthew the healthcare blog back with another TCV spotlight. This one is kind of unusual. We have a company launched but it's not a uh startup trying to fix anything in healthcare. It's a law firm which is going to fix all the startups who are trying to fix things in healthcare or maybe didn't need fixing. I don't know. Anyway, on my uh on your screen on the left there is Caitlyn Okconor. On the right is Rebecca Guilt and they are from the brand new law firm which is not called Elevare. El it's

called EL. Is that right? Ele I'm I've been called Becky and Becca and and Beex. Uh you know, however you say it will respond. It's it's actually I've got very rough about that. Now people start trying to call me Matt. I don't like it. My name is Matthew. Now I'm an old man. I'm gonna be grumpy about that. Don't try Don't Don't dare get it wrong. I'm a grownup. I'm a grown up there. Exactly. All right. So, uh Rebecca, let's start with you. You uh

had another law firm with your name on it recently and you started a new law firm. Um I assume you did. I assume there's something in the uh in in the air which suggests that uh there is a requirement for legal and regulatory help and advice and counsel for startups in the healthcare business. Tell me more. Yeah. So um so you know I spent the last 10 plus years uh running a the nation's first healthcare innovation law firm. Um and we made that up. You know that's a that became a thing because we said it

was. And before that I worked in healthcare policy and technology. And um you know after 10 years of sort of heading in one direction I decided it was a time for a change. And right now we're um you know it's all about leveling up. So, choose your metaphor, flying, jumping, reaching the mountaintop, elevating your game. That's um that's what we're doing in 2025. Um and uh because I'm passionate about working with companies, building, you know, the future of healthcare, I'm

going to take them all with me. And um little known um but soon to be wellknown. Uh Caitlyn was the first full-time employee at um my former firm. I hired her um fresh out of law school and recognized her incredible talent and um took her with me as well. Took a took a big risk on this fresh lawsuit law grad, but it was it was it was great. Yeah, that's right. It's not that much of a risk. I I've seen I've seen better calls. They just fire you if you know. Well, you you you lost it and and now

you've decided to take an even bigger risk and and so right now it's uh just the two of you. I understand when you started you know your previous term was you build up got got quite large and you became pretty well known Rebecca uh within digital health and health tech as being sort of health innovation lawyer who understood a lot of what is going on so so let's start with the sort of basics um there are companies at all stages many of whom are too early to afford a lawyer and you'll see a lot of

deals with a very large Silicon Valley and other firms where they are doing stuff for stock and then and then as soon as as soon as the venture capital arrives The billing gets very extreme very quickly. Yeah. But but there's a lot of different things going on in the world of innovation, right? There is starting a company, getting all that stuff together. There is then figuring out where what you're going to do and and getting getting all sort of intellectual property, all that stuff. And then the

last sort of thing is you have to dive into whatever area of healthare you're in. and depending whether that's you know touching the FDA or touching clinical practice or so many laws and regulations and state laws. So what bit are you specializing in doing? I would say the the feedback we get from clients um you know when we when we really know we've done a good job is that they were trying to unlock something and they couldn't unlock it and uh they needed someone that spoke a couple of

languages. they needed to speak tech, they needed to speak healthcare regulatory and they needed to speak um you know a business model, right? And so I think my uh differentiator um and I think Caitlyn would say the same thing as well has been sort of uh working with companies in partnership to develop business models uh uh you know uh finance flows um relationships partnerships that that sort of operate in the in between where there isn't regulation but it's a little bit risky. Um, and you know there are tremendously

talented healthc care lawyers out there that specialize in in you know specific areas in very traditional settings, hospitals, health systems, pharma, uh, uh, you know, medical practices. Um, and where where where we differ from them is in our ability to sort of build things a new, right? So, in digital health, these are uh you know, I I'll let Caitlyn talk about it, but but uh the RPM space is a really interesting space that that illustrates pretty well sort of how we built our value as lawyers. Yeah. I I

think what I would say is we don't specialize in one specific area of law. We don't specialize just in FDA or just in HIPPA or just in the anti- kickback statute. We specialize in how all of those things work together with reimbursement and payment policy and all of the you know AI policy and yeah and and and emerging trends in the space. So we specialize in how all of those things work together to help our clients predict what's next. Unlock new opportunities based on what we believe

is next and turning that into real impact with their business and with patient care and you know everything else that comes with change transforming healthcare. So so yeah, it's it's more of you know how everything works together and turning it into something real than it is about a specific area of law that applies to medical devices or or the like. So before we leave the topic of of the new firm, what kind of customers are you are you looking for and what kind of customers have you are

you working with? And by that I mean there are obviously you mentioned a bunch of folks who have their fingers in the innovation pie. You know there are hospitals with uh innovation funds and you know doing work with with with private startups and farmer and people sort of crowding around the edges of that. There's obviously um startup companies of various flavors. How uh which ones of those are you uh working with or want to work with with and which uh what what level what type of uh you know company we so in other words the

person who's got a dog and a computer and has got an idea are they ready they need they probably need legal help but they're probably they may not be ready for you or vice versa and then you have you know the companies who raised hundreds of millions um who presumably have have I don't know in-house councils where do you sit yeah it's it's a fair question And uh it's a little bit of a shift from what I've been doing the last 10 years. Um you are you are correct that a lot of

clients uh may not be ready for investment in council. Um I really love working with those clients and um understanding the kinds of emerging trends based on what new companies are coming around. So um I continue to provide weekly office hours that that you know for mentorship and uh you know ideiation and things like that for very early stage companies who come to me that aren't really ready to to hire me. Um so I will continue to do that. I also work with plug-andplay and tech stars. Um I think uh Caitlyn works with uh

found Jump Jumpstart Foundry. I mean we are very involved in the startup space. Um but most of our clients now are either spinning out of large established companies or they are um you know uh seed series A. So they've gotten their first round of institutional funding and they're ready to sort of invest in scaling their business model. Yeah. I think where I think where we add the most value is for companies that like Rebecca said are ready to invest in legal services and and probably companies that are trying to solve a new

problem. We have a lot of clients that come to us that have been working with other legal counsel for a while trying to build a new model that doesn't exist yet. And what we hear when they come to us is we can actually take their idea and turn it into reality much more quickly than previous council that they've worked with. And you know it's not that's what we like to do and that's what we like to do. That's what's that's what that's clearly haven't figured out

the whole building by the minute six minute period for for add infin item model which is everybody. Well, well, we should talk about that because we uh you know, one of the things we doubled down on when we built the new firm was using the latest technology to make our firm more efficient and effective for clients. Um, and you know, we've we are lucky enough to work alongside some pretty smart technologists in the healthcare space. So, we know what kind of capability the tech has and we look

way outside of tech tools that are for lawyers. We look for the kind of tech that is safe and secure and confidential. Of course, um but that can turn one lawyer into maybe three lawyers. Yeah. Um or turn two parallegals into a software. Right. We are we are doing the same kinds of things in law that we see a lot of our care management clients doing with the combination of licensed uh professionals that you absolutely need and technology that makes those licensed professionals more efficient. Um, so yes, full stop,

legal services are expensive. Um, if I want to hire the absolute smartest people there are, I got to pay them. And if I got to pay them the amount that they, you know, that they want, um, you know, this is, you know, basic running a business, but but we are investing and I do believe that we are working much more efficiently than um, than a lot of our competitors out there. Okay. So, I was kind of trying to get into like minute 10 without mentioning AI, but you've already without even mentioning it, you

mentioned it, but so that so there we go. But yeah, and uh and and you know, clearly I have put contracts in the chatbt and say explain to me what Elvis says, you know, just like every other non. I don't think that's a bad idea. I mean, I'm getting much better uh deeper informed questions from clients because they're running some of their stuff through CHABT. Now, if your the thing you're running through chatbt says this contract is confidential, you do not do not do that. But, you know, if you want to understand

what indemnification means, um, if you want to take some lawyer, you know, super thick lawyer language and turn it into plain language, um, I think Chachbt is a great tool to use. We use something that's much more sophisticated, but it's a large language model. You know, we we use a couple of technologies that use large language models. Now, they're they're what they're based on is sort of trusted and vetted legal uh you know, contracts and uh precedent. Um but anyway, I you know, I don't I don't

fault my clients for using Chachi BT. I'll tell you where it gets tricky is when in the past when I've had a client that tried to DIY, you could very you could tell immediately that they tried to DIY. And so it that led me to say, "Okay, I got to ask some more questions about what's going on here." And now I get these very polished things that make it sound like the client has thought through all the angles and and purposefully chosen these, you know, these aspects. Um, and because I'm

familiar with LLMs, I can thankfully tell that it's that it's generated. But it does it is a little bit of if you if you're a lawyer that's not using this tech right now, it would be easy to gauge the risk that your client knows what they're doing differently. um than you than you should because um because of their use of the tech. But anyway, I think it's leveling up their game and leveling up our game which I think is best for everybody. But but then that translates pretty much directly to

what's going on in healthcare, right? Same exactly the same types of things where people trying to figure out what can they use uh AI for and and you're seeing this controversy. So let let's go there because this is this this is to me I mean this is to me we got these three things going on at the moment which are well two two to three which are insane right so one one one is we have um this big transformation in healthcare towards using AI and there's a lot of confusion about you know who's supplying what type

of AI uh and then you know who does what and and I'm I've been working with several companies trying to you know help them figure out how to how to sell this stuff it's very hard to explain what you're doing compared to what somebody else is doing. If you go back 10 years, you know, when you were starting when when you were the self innovation more idea, Rebecca, you know, I could tell you it was a tele health company. It was here and the RPM company was over there. It's a bit different and

there was a like and now you and there was a company doing patient patient, you know, care management, whatever somewhere else you all these different things. You could kind of slice them up. People like me used to draw maps of the world of digital health and that kind of stuff. And now it's like I have this chat GPT thing and it can both you know analyze text it can do voice it can uh you know it can do a chatbot it can do a VO it can create a voice thing and there are companies in each spaces trying to

say why they're better but if I was a buyer if I was a big hospital system I'm not sure you know is the is the people who are doing ambient AI scribing now say that they can also do you know also can do summary of the notes and also start doing diagnosis you know who's who's doing what that that there's that one problem but we know AI is coming right there wasn't much of a regulation proposed by the Biden administration got eliminate eliminated change some people told me what happens it was it was a

little it was a little bit it was pretty narrowly applicable to certified EHR but they did put together a lot of guidance materials so the executive order and then the memoranda that came out of that um executive order um but but to your point it's still a little squishy right it's all principal based um So yeah go ahead. So that there was that and then the next thing that happened right so now we have the Trump administration coming in changing that and doing two things at once right one is it's doing

massive you know structural reform and reform is in massive vertical decimation of of various regulatory agenc where where in FDA you know C it's all over the map right we really people fired, rehired, there's just general chaos there. So, we have this AI thing, we're having the sort of government chaos. And then um the last piece which you know it happens all the time is that we're seeing the payment systems undergo uh maybe change, you know, talking about Medicare Advantage and uh the uh ACA

exchanges and this stuff and Medicaid, right? This stuff may be changing as well. So where you are fishing or farming or whatever the thing is as a company may change as well. So you've got technology change, regulatory change and you know payment potentially payment change as well. Who knows? Where should people from a who care about this stuff and are doing innovation in companies where what what should they be looking at? What's the thing that where where your eyes are on the ball first? You know what they would

be paying attention to? Well, I like how you've sliced it, right? Tech and I'm a consultant that goes into three buckets, right? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Um, so, you know, I think the chaos right now is sort of the point, right? Um, I think that in moments of chaos for innovation in particular, um, there are there are upsides and there are downsides. You know, a lot of my clients that work in the Medicaid space are very concerned and rightly so. Um, but my clients who are in the software as a medical device

states, you know, uh, space are going, well, how the heck are they going to come after us if they don't have anybody working there anymore that like understands this policy? So, my IRS my IRS strategy, turn my own. That's right. How will they know? Will they really How will they know? I I started my career working for the Obama administration um and have seen a little bit of the inside of government and the reality is in these regulatory agencies there are not enough resources to go after all of the bad actors that there

are and um you know people who work there that want to make a career for themselves often go for the easy the easy things to prove right so um in the fraud and abuse world if you have a really really complicated arrangement and you are small fish that it's unlikely to be on the government's radar. What you'll hear from white collar defense lawyers is it's too complicated for an a USA to prove that this is a problem in court. They'd much rather like the guy who's handing out

money to homeless people to go in and, you know, get a get, you know, get scans off the street. And so there's this um calculus that necessarily goes on where yes, there are rules about what's okay and what's not okay. And then there's gray area where it might be okay and it might not be okay. Maybe today's environment is one where entrepreneurs are willing to take more risk in the in the gray area knowing that the regulators are off their game. Yeah. And I also think just sort of going back to

sort of the three buckets that you mentioned, Matthew, and looking at, you know, who's who's actually even in agencies anymore to do any of the things they're supposed to do. I will say one of the areas that I expect we will see a big slowdown will be in the approval of medical devices including software as a medical device because the FDA has been yeah it's been taken down to just a few people who were already overburdened but when you look at the three buckets that you talked about when you look at

regulation technology and payment and how they're all changing and how they're all working together the places where I see technology being most valuable right now are in the sort of middle ground among those three things. So for example, I do a lot of work with care management companies, RPM, chronic care management, APCM, if you're familiar with advanced primary care management, and all of the other sort of care management areas, PIN services, CHI, all of that. Where I'm seeing clients be

most successful is building tools that are medical devices but do not require FDA clearance. So there's a subcategory of mobile medical apps in particular, software as a medical device that are medical devices and do not require clearance by FDA. Um, and they don't even require registration. But because they are medical devices, in a lot of ways, they are eligible for payment under existing Medicare Part B policy. And there are many places in the Medicare physician fee schedule where CMS has already established the ways in

which that technology can support the various payment mechanisms that exist as long as it's a medical device. So if we look at, you know, regulation, you have a medical device, you're likely going to be a decent candidate for reimbursement under existing remote patient monitoring codes, remote uh sorry, remote physiologic monitoring codes, remote therapeutic monitoring codes. Advanced primary care management is a really good one. Um, yeah, you should do a you should do an episode on this. Yeah, we

could do a whole separate episode about it for sure. It's gonna be a big deal, especially for for tech only providers. Yeah, exactly. But but so the but so the point the the exciting part about APCM I think is it feels very overwhelming because there are 13 service elements that are very complicated, require a lot of work both by the billing provider and the technology company that's providing support. But in the Medicare physician fee schedule, CMS has explicitly addressed the ways in which technology

can support every single one of those 13 elements through automated workflows, identifying patient risk sooner using data analysis. Um, uh, automating documentation, building out tailored, I'm sorry, building out, uh, templated care plans that are very easy for doctors to, uh, adjust based on the patient and customize to the patient's specific needs. So, so when you know and and in that case actually that type of technology doesn't even require doesn't even have to be a medical device at all.

So you can kind of stay out of the messiness that is FDA regulation and just live within the technology and payment spaces. So so you know I think there's a lot of opportunity. We could again have a whole other podcast about care management and how and how technology plays a role there. But but I think that despite the fact that there's chaos and confusion within the agencies right now, there is established policy that provides very clear pathways for technology to support reimburseable

services, whether it's Medicare Part B or Medicare Advantage plans are required to cover everything that Medicare Part B covers. So even if we do shift to Medicare advantage as a as a bigger uh percentage of Medicare patients and Medicare coverage, all of the things that already exist will still be covered and maybe even more so. So So again, just to sort of put a put a period at the end of the sentence, it's there is a lot of confusion, but there are established pathways that won't change

despite the confusion that is happening right now. Yeah. I think the loss is going to be to us as individual people living in this country. Yeah. and not to not to industry. I think there's a tremendous amount of opportunity in industry. Um I'm more worried about like you know clean water and Yeah. making sure you know we have health insurance. Yeah. Well, I mean you you can argue back and forth, right? Because there is the the issue of if we have people who building companies that are going to

tending to help in areas like Medicare Management, Medicare Management just got to pay this so it might be okay. um but Medicaid and you know people working these changes and what have you there are there are a number of areas of of the health economy that are certainly going to change but I mean I guess what you're saying Kayen is that things that look like devices and drugs are not are going to be being a trickier time but there's enough regulation and payment sort of bait in already that

things that are services that may include that types of technology is probably going to be more okay and we've seen a fair boom in that already in RPM and RTM and the these other areas you mentioned. What was the one you mentioned? The AP AIC. I already I got lost the need. APCM. Yeah, APCM. Advanced primary care management. It is a monthly reimbursement for primary care that is still fee for service but captures all different types of Is this not is this is this one of the ones that's going to be decimated by when CMI

gets demolished or was that not a CMI? No. No. So, it was just introduced for reimbursement this year for 2025. So it is new on the fee for service side but it's in regular Medicare. It's not an experimental pilot program. That's right. They other payment private programs that only FA only FA Mosari understands and you know you get get a tweet number 78 in his tweet tweet streaming go I don't understand it anymore. I give up. Yeah. Yeah, it does. It does incorporate a lot of the elements from the CMMI models,

but despite the fact that those are going away, they're incorporated into APCM and to other uh aspects of reimbursement on the fee side. It's in regulatory. So, I mean, there's there's a chance that they could blow up the Medicare physician fee schedule system and and repeal it. But I, you know, they they got bigger fish to fry it right now. Well, that has been threatened, right, by Kennedy. Um, not notably wanted to take the AMA's um, ownership goes away, which which is fascinating stuff. Yeah, I I hope they

do a reality television show about what's going to happen to like the CBT editorial committee and the ruck like I want to I want to eat popcorn. I want to find out like the whole thing. People have come after the ruck. So So for those who are not following along at home, the ruck is the what's it called? The the resource-based relative value scale utilization committee. Is that the right name? It's it's a has the the first R stands for a lot of stuff, but it's basically we love an acronym. It's

it it's what fixes Medicare fee for service uh fees which then has massive ripple effects because everyone else pays you know 100% 200% or 500% or whatever of Medicare and uh over the years has massively follow favored procedures and specialists because the ruck committee is dominated by it's run by the AMA but dominated by a bunch of specialist societies and uh decade and a half ago it was sued by a bunch of primary care doctors and uh who lost the street the rock is all okay it could do

what it likes in secret and you know Medicare may or may not accept its uh its rules. If Canada wants to have really go blind that up, if you really wanted to make America healthy, I want to say again because it's never been healthy. If you wanted to make American health care better, what you would do is is create a a primary care based system that paid primary care doctors to manage care, not paid specialists more money to to do that. Well, and at least have some transparency. Yeah. And I don't I don't

not I do not think that that's where this administration is heading is more transparency, but um but it could happen. Yeah. Well, I will also just say though that the APCM codes are CMS created. They're not in the CPT code book. So again, so that is already a movement by CMS to take control of the reimbursement for primary care and take some of that out of the hands of the AMA. That's interesting. Okay. So, so we've got some interesting stuff there. Let me dive one more technical point of

this because I I now got you two on the line. I've never understood this. I have had any number of companies come to me and say, "Oh, you know, blah, blah, blah. We're going to do well because we got this clever thing and it's going to be, you know, an RPM or an RTM device. It's all good." And I go, "No, it's not. It's a piece of software in which you're getting the patient to write down what happened to them, you know, something. It's not a blood pressure cuff reporting

back on screen piece of data." And many of them some of the like the areas of tracking pain and other areas which there's no easy you know device to manage this have have been billing for this stuff and getting away quote unquote getting away with it right. So how far does this go? I mean I think we're going to start to see I mean I think we're going to start seeing enforcement on on that now. I mean but anyway Caitlyn is the person to ask this question too. You're gonna get me on my

soap. Well, that's why I asked. Um, yeah. So, look, uh, over the last couple of years, the OIG, the Office of Inspector General, has been They all got fired, too, as well, right? Didn't did they get a lot of them? A lot of them vacation. Yeah. Yeah. They're on vacation. Um they've been conducting audits on providers that are billing for care management services, primarily remote physiologic monitoring, which is not as old as chronic care management, but older than RTM and some of the other

areas of uh care management reimbursement that we see. Um I it is my professional opinion that the reports we saw come out of those audits thus far. I think that OIG, you know, OIG has a job to do, but they're limited in the information that they can use to conduct their analyses. So, what they did was they took a bunch of existing Medicare claims data, and reviewed that. They looked at what CPT codes were build, what was paid out for those codes, and that's kind of it. They did not look at

medical record documentation. They did not talk to patients about what patients were experiencing. And so what they saw were some gaps what they what they perceived as gaps in the way these services are being delivered. For example, there are codes that represent time spent monitoring data and there are codes that represent supplying patients with devices to collect that data, the blood pressure cuff, etc. You do there are different requirements for each of those. So you have to have 16 days of

readings in order to build the device code, but you do not have to have 16 days of readings in order to build the time code. And so what they're seeing is in many cases, the device code is getting build, but the time code isn't because providers aren't meting that minimum time threshold of 20 minutes. On the flip side, they're seeing time spent, and codes getting build for time spent, but not seeing a bill for the device. And so it looks like patients didn't have a device and providers made

up that they were spending 20 minutes monitoring data that they never collected. But in reality, what's happening is patients are submitting, for example, 12 days of data. The device code can't get build because they haven't met that 16-day threshold. But the time code does get build because providers and the care team will spend 20 minutes or more monitoring just that 12 days worth of data. So in a way I I think the report thus far has been pretty flawed. I don't think there is uh

there are as many gaps as I has perceived thus far. Um and just to sort of give a piece of context, OIG is just the office within HHS that enforces reimbursement rules and the anti- kickback statute and all of that. So they're essentially a partner to CMS. Um and then what about the RPM versus RTM in terms of like device versus software? That's where you started. Yeah. So, so, so I think there's a similar thing on the RTM side, but we just haven't seen anybody look that closely at it yet. And

so, I don't know if the same gaps would exist. But you can bill RTM with just a piece of software. Correct. Yes, you can build RTM with just a piece of software. You do not have to have a device. That's right. That's right. You don't have to have a hardware, but the software does have to be a medical device. that that's where the FDA regulations come in where if you can be subject to enforcement discretion and you don't have to go through clearance or register the device, the software can still be a

medical device. You can still bill for it, but it doesn't but you don't have to go through the extra hoops of uh that that FDA sets out. But there's another area coming to right not tech coming right for this area, right? Which is the idea that you know who is doing my 20 minutes? Does it have to be a human? Could it be an AI? And I've actually seen I've actually seen one company advertising that they will support use their AI to support the human doing the uh hourish for the 20 minutes depending

on whether you need to do more 20 minutes or less 20 minutes they will slow they will use their to slow down or speed up the uh the human accordingly which is kind of ridiculous because when you're seeing now you know companies like well there are many out there but every cryptocratic is is one making big fuss about using nurses to do education. You can imagine all of that stuff that recording can is is going to go to AI or or ought to go to AI. So yeah. Yeah, we were actually just talking about this

earlier. Um so so yes, that and '90s rep. Yeah, that and 90s rep. I get this question all the time, right? Can I just use AI to do the 20 minutes? Frankly, I usually tell clients they shouldn't do that. they shouldn't meet the entire 20-minute threshold just using AI because there are specific rules about clinical staff being licensed or certified under state law and AI right now wouldn't meet that requirement. So, I do believe that for the 20 minute for the timebased codes, there should be a

real human involved in those interactions right now just strictly for meeting the billing requirements. I'm not I'm not commenting on quality or efficiency or or any of that, but I think just strictly for meeting the time requirements, there should be a human involved. Now, not to sort of take us back to APCM again, but the APCM codes are not timebased. And so there's a lot more opportunity there to leverage technology to leverage AI. You can actually still build for RPM and RTM if you also bill for APCM. So, so I would

say if you if you want to fully remove the human from the the technology piece, then I wouldn't go the route of RPM or RTM, I'd keep a human involved there, but I'd look more closely at APCM for how the technology can play uh play a bigger role in the care management. So, so let's take this a little bit wider because you're now we're now hitting on two of the two of the biggest issues that are going to either change or not change or be destroyed or whatever will be stopped by

regulation. So, one of them is Tellah health and location and licensing and you know state state byst state licensing which has been the the bug bear for many tele health companies and they have to hire these doctors who are l ridicously licensed in 50 states and you know that they have to do these crazy we know a lot of them I'm sure you know right there's a bunch of crazy workarounds because apparently if I'm sitting in New Jersey with my medical degree and you're in New York um

apparently you know what I know doesn't count on your body or something does that and then related to this is the idea that there are several parts of uh clinical care that it looks like um and there was actually just a study out of Cornell Cornell maybe Cornell a couple weeks ago. Yeah. A study out of some of those fancy Ivy League. We went to Syracuse. So the the real upstate New York I That's right. That's right. Well, the fancier Ivy League school near Syracuse that somewhere near Syracuse. Wow. Wow.

Wow. Okay. This is But did they win the But I have an I I'm a degree from Cambridge. I'm insulted. There's some new company called Oxbridge Partners which somehow emerged on I saw on the other day. Anyway, but here's here's my point. What do their studies say? They did a therapy study and they ran a chatbot against you know human therapists and the chatbot did well as well if not better. seems to me there are a ton of there is mental health therapy is obviously you know yeah

obvious one where a lot of what's going on is wrote conversation with a patient and humans are no better than AI and probably worse and the AI we're now seeing coming out of video and other people like that is is so good and it's clearly going to get so much better is yeah you're already have spoken to I I have already spoken to companies who are building a an AI doctor like that is their intention. They know it's going to take a while, but that's what they're doing. I mean, that's that's coming, you

know. So, so let me ask you about the regulation for both of those, right? So, yeah. Yeah. If Cornell says that the therapist that their their bot therapist is better than uh better than human therapist already um is there anything stopping them just, you know, starting to use it, billing for it or where what does the reaction say about this kind of thing now? What's going to happen around that? What people what should these people be doing? And then well that's compare and contrast if you could the

crossstate teller health things that I mean that's a different topic but but it seems to be they're related. Well it go well it goes back to the control of the state medical boards the agencies within the states that govern the practice of medicine the practice of counseling the practice of dentistry all of that. Um, there are laws on the books in all 50 states in the District of Columbia that say if you aid in a bet the unlicensed practice of whatever, you're guilty of a a misdemeanor. Um,

usually they're criminal and civil. Um, and so that's that is the that is the source of the prohibition on the uh use of tech to practice medicine. um you know the the the the state medical boards are not filled with young technologists who are also doctors. Um and so it's going to take a while for them to come around to any kind of new iteration of of of that. Um, these are also, you know, protectionist organizations that are filled with doctors who are trying to who who who want to who are in, you know, enforcing

the laws of the state, but also are business owners in a lot of cases and sort of protecting the way that they live and the way that they do business. Um, and so the medical boards on a state-by-state basis are going to be in charge of this. There's not going to be a federal law that says AI is a doctor. That's just not going to happen. Um the way that changes happen at the medical board level are the federation of state medical boards gets lobbied to or lobbies to change things and then there

is um you know template language that gets uh walked into state state houses um and lobbyed for um that's what happened and continues to happen in the teleahalth space. Um I know you wanted to talk about sort of crossber tellah health. We have lots and lots of um compacts and things that sort of make it easy for licensed professionals to practice their profession across state lines. But again, the the structure of how this changes at the state level. You know, you're not going to have a law

that says every licensed professional can now practice in every other state because there's a medical board and there's a pharmacy board and there's a psychology board and there's a licensed marriage and family counselor board, right? there there are individual um uh siloed rules for each type of professional in every state. Um and so major major upend change is unlikely to happen in the in a in a sweep. Um it's what makes our jobs really fun right now is we get to sort of like watch it as

it's as it's happening. Um and I and I wanted to bring up another point u which uh came to me as we're having this conversation. um you know, people like you and and us, uh we sort of make our living helping to navigate clients through all of these like hairy uh esoteric questions around law and policy and then what actually happens in business, you know, inside of boardrooms and um you know, uh law firms like ours who who whose value is in being hyper specialized can be can be deep in a way, but we can't be as broad,

you know as a as a massive organization like a deote or a a KPMG or a you know McDermott Will and Emory right and so um we are very aware of that and part of what we wanted to do in the new firm was to develop an affiliate network of professionals that go deep in their particular area but make accessing them pretty seamless. Um you and I have been at enough conferences um for us to know that like we know people, right? We have used our network and our um um charm to be become friends with a lot of very

people. No, you have charm. You have charm. I've seen it. I've seen it in action. But you know, we wanted to leverage that network um to do what we've been doing always, which is, hey, you need XYZ person that knows how to set up a clinical trial for a software as a medical device at a hospital in the Midwest. like we can find that person. We're working on formalizing that so that we can make the experience of getting to that person, interacting with that person, explaining to that person

what you're doing, and moving quicker, which all entrepreneurs in this space want to do much easier. So anyway, I'll be I'll be hitting you up about that affiliate network as well. But anyway, I wanted to sort of talk about how that can be another area of value that we're bringing um to clients as we have these like very specific policy discussions. We're not going to know the answers to all of these, but pretty confident we can find the person, the Caitlyn of whatever other, you know, space. But but

but putting you on the spot about this particular thing, right? Sort of the replacement of of of the the move online and the AI AI, I think that's the word word of clinical care. Let's say it is now. Yeah, it is. AI AIization. It needs it needs another thing in there. Coin that trademark. If anybody uses that, it's Matthew. It's ours. It's been used in I have enough problems with the Indian guys who stole health 2.0 from HIMS and HIMS didn't care and you have offered everybody in

America an award at their show. RIP the joke is it was it was it was the joke is they that little conference even existed claimed to be on in Vegas when Hibs was there. I should have gone I didn't go anyway. Um but but but let me go back to to my question on the spot. How badly does all this clever stuff that we see, people saying, I've got this thing that's going to, you know, help this doctor with AI or replace this doctor with AI or replace this, you know, and do it online that had to be in person.

And I've had, just speak, I've had amazing I've had tele health visits that have diagnosed the particular part of my back that hurt by watching me bend and stretch and, you know, ask me where the pain was. I mean, yeah, doctors can do incredible stuff. real doctors. Yeah. Yeah. This um so I think there's incredible uh there's incredible opportunity for us to change healthcare using all this stuff. Is it going to is it going to make it past any of this regulatory statebased stuff or is this going to

kill us all dead or where are we? Uh you know there there are already things in motion to to um you know make crossstate licensing a little bit easier. I'm not sure, you know, there are risks to uh making it too easy. Um, but I will tell you the biggest hurdle that we've got to get past is reimbursement for this stuff. Um, you know, shout out to Kyle Zley and the team at ATA like doing the hardest work over the past several years just trying to get this telealth bill through just, you know, with things that

are common sense that both sides of the aisle already agree on anyway. Um, I think that's the problem that I would want to focus on first because once there's money behind it and there's entrepreneurs who can make more money via teleaalth, they're going to start donating to candidates who can change things on a state and local level that will, you know, provide a glide path. But while we're, you know, before they know they can um they can get reimbursed for this stuff, you're always

going to have less activity. Um, and so I think that's I think that's got to happen first. Yeah. I mean, I will I I agree with everything Rebecca just said. I will go so far as to say 100% there is going to be a time where these tools do make it to market. They do get through FDA clearance if they need it. They do get through they do figure out a way to navigate state lensure rules. There is a there is going to be a day where that happens. I mean, it's not going to stop. No. Yeah. Exactly. I would say it's a

situation where like, you know, not to not to sound uh I don't know what the word, but I think the toothpaste is out of the tube, right? Like I I you can't put the toothpaste back into the tube. People are building these tools already. And so whether the government likes it or not, they're going to make it to market. And it takes a long time to enforce these to enforce any rules against those tools, particularly when there really aren't that many rules that exist around it, right? Because there

absolutely are state lensure laws or and regulations that everyone has to follow. But those those those regulations don't say anything about software practicing medicine at all. They say it would be their interpretation and then somebody would go to court and then somebody would go to court and then they'd have to make an argument and a judge would have to decide and by the way we're lawyers like no hate on the legal system. But is the judge who hears that case even going to have the right

experience and understanding of technology and healthcare rules even to rule on that appropriately like I I don't I don't know. So so you know I think yes there is a world where this happens. How soon? I don't know. There are entrepreneurs that will take a big risk. There are, you know, people have made history in healthcare by doing things that are technically illegal and eventually they get in trouble and they have to stop doing what they're doing or change what they're doing, but they but

they change things forever by doing that. So, I think we'll see a world honestly maybe in the next I mean you have there's a company already. I won't name them just because they're not our client and websites can say one thing and mean another. But there's there's a there's a company out there with a website that says our AI tool will can replace your nurses. You don't need nurses. You can just use our AI. And at some point someone's going to start asking them questions and digging.

That's why they're on strike in California. Yeah. Exactly. And start digging into whether that's allowed or or whether it's not. And that could be in the next year. Like we could see this conversation start to happen in the next year or it could be five years. I really don't know. But but yes, one day we will get there. I just don't know what that timeline looks like right now. Yeah. I mean, look at healthcare is always complicated by the fact that you have separate regulation and this weird

payment system where you have to, as you said, something sort of completely obvious can't be paid for um because we pay this ridiculous fee of service system which is based on what was, you know, introduced for the Dallas school teachers in 1930, you know, and makes no sense in 2025. Still, never mind. We're going back to the 1890s anyway country. So maybe we should go maybe to have all those old regulation. We're recording this on one of the days when I think Trump I think Trump put an

105% tariff on China last night because apparently it was okay in 1897 or 1852 or something. I don't think we imported from China back then. But it's a little bit different now. Listen, I I think healthc care wants the same thing that banking wants and that is just just a breather just like some some break in the chaos so that we know where to direct our energy right um and so I I don't know if the dust is going to settle right like we may just be operating in this but again you know in

my work in general um and because I'm in charge of what clients I will work with um it is almost always true that where that I am interacting with people who are really trying to improve the lives of people um who have dedicated you know taken major risks and dedicated their lives to building something that will be to the benefit of humankind. And so um I feel very blessed to be uh to to have this as my job to have a good reminder amid a lot of really ugly things happening around the world um that there

are people out there trying to do trying to do good and and you know it's part of our why. Yeah, for sure. Well, that's great. Well, that's a great place to end. You guys are are optimistic and and I'm and you know, I I would share that I'm I I get depressed uh about every five years. I'm certainly in one of those depressed mates at the moment that none of this stuff's ever going to change, but it would be understandable. Hope I'm hopeful it will change before I die at least. Um but uh you know, you

can see the opportunity um that could be brought on by all this new technology we see every day to really improve how care is delivered, how patients experience care. and we know the mess that is going you know that that it's the patient experience and the clinician experience at the moment. So you know uh it's great that you guys are sort of on the side of the people who are trying to you know break down those Esther Dyson said this at the very first health entrepreneur conference is that healthcare as a calcified hairball

that's got stuck in the bottom of a gutter in a drain you know and and breaking breaking it up breaking it up is is has been you know the life's work of many many of us and I'm I'm not sure the hairballs are getting bigger rather more calcified. But you mean maybe that's why we like working working with the early stage companies so much and um why we held on to sort of that mentorship role because going back to the well of you know my daughter had a rare genetic disease and my wife and I went through so much and

if I hadn't been a independently wealthy tech founder I never would have been able to help my family and so that's up like I'm going to build something that's going to make sure that other families don't have to deal with that like that going back to that as a well to to remain motivated to do the work that we do um works every time. Yeah. I mean maybe let's add more text. Oh, sorry. Go ahead. I was just going to say um because now I'm stuck on the hairball example. Maybe each of our

clients is pulling like one tiny piece of hair out of that hairball. But if we have a hundred clients that are each pulling one tiny piece of hair, maybe we pull a hundred hairs out of that hair ball by the end of the year. Now, I want you to go to Dolly and I want you to give them a transcript of what she just said and have that be the thumbnail for this podcast. I'm just I'm just hoping we have a few tech billionaires who actually want to, you know, fix healthcare and and not they're out there. Not the study that

their goal is to, you know, is is to stop poor people in Africa getting vaccines or send people back across the border or No, they're out there. Markin is doing a lot of great work. Someone just interviewed him and he's got some really exciting things upcoming. I know. I know. Elon Musk in my view, but you know. There we go. Or any I'm a Bernie Sanders guy. They should all be taxed down to being less than billionaires because they could probably they could probably all get by at 900

million. But whatever. I'm married I'm married to a Bernie bro. Yeah. It's true. That's that's all good. I mean Well, you know, he's been he he's like me. He's been shouting about this for, you know, 50 years. No one's paying any attention. I know. I know. I am once again asking to just pass tellahalth expansion permanently, please. Thank you. That's that's the one thing. All right. Fantastic. All right. Well, look, we should wrap this up because we we can

talk about this and we will talk about this again for month. Thank you so much. This this I think is the first podcast from the uh Elevale Law Firm. Is that right? It is. It's true. inaugural our inaugural uh podcast. I'm probably just going to give this to you and you can run out your podcast channel which doesn't exist yet. But for now, I'm going I we're going to call it we're gonna call it Elevision. Elevision later this year. Q3 Q3 Elevation is getting built. All right. I I I I'm looking

forward to that. All right. I was with Kaitlin O' Connor and Rebecca Guil. They are the the new law firm of Elab and uh just kicking off this week. So, congrats ladies on the new firm and uh thanks for the chat about healthcare and regulation and law and all that good stuff and good luck. Thank you, Matthew. Great to meet you. Thank you for having us.