Title: Ellipsis Health
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hdSVd0A8da0
Language: en
Duration: 00:48:19
Upload Date: June 15, 2026

Transcription:

[music]  Matthew Hall, another TAC spotlight.  This is with Ellipsis Health. I have  with me Melissa Mcool who's the COO. Um,  and Mike Aruto, who is the co one of the  co-founders and the chief medical  officer of Ellipsis Health. So, uh, I'll  start at the beginning and then we'll  quickly get to the present because the  beginning took a while and has changed.

Mike, you started off as a uh biometric  marker company, biometric voice marker  company trying to figure out mental  health and somehow you transmuted into a  conversational voice AI company in  healthcare. So tell us about the  beginning and why did you change?  [snorts]  Yeah. Well, I think it's all was all  planned, Matthew.

Um,  of course, I'm sure everything in every  startup ever has always been planned  from the start.  And as Mike Tyson said something about  you got punched in the face. [laughter]  Well, no. So really um the founder um  Manu who um is a CEO had the vision from  the very start of having some type of  virtual care manager.

Uh and um but he  understood that before you can recreate  that virtual agent, you need to  understand the person on the other end  of the call because you need to be  responsive to that person's and that  person's needs. And so we started off  with the vocal biomarker and we took the  two most prevalent sort of behavioral  health issues within this population  which is depression and anxiety.

Uh and  then we and then that took us a few  years because that was a hard problem.  Uh and then as the technology sort of  came around  uh to that made it much more practical  to create a realistic virtual agent then  uh we created Sage uh to interact with  patients and now we have both Sage who  can do a natural interaction and have  this functionality to understand the  caller and see if they have issues and  to be able to feed that back to Sage you  know to to engage the patient in the  right way.

All right. I will buy it. Thousands  wouldn't. You've got uh a lot of other  people out there who are doing voice  agents who don't have a background in  emotional biomarkers and maybe that  makes a difference. So let's let's talk  a bit about that. Okay. So now you are  where you are today. Um you guys have  been working with a number of care  management organizations, health plans,  uh providers and others.

Um so we're  going to have a little bit of a a show  and tell a demo. Um, but Melissa, give  me a sense about what the primary use  cases that you've found that Sage is  being used for at the moment.  Well, Sage is really good at doing  assessments. She's really good at  closing uh care gaps. Um, she's really  good at medication uh non-adherence,  like when people aren't picking up  prescriptions fromarmacies, that type of  thing. So, closing care gaps.

So sage is  is uh being used to sort of look at  patients who are probably you know in  some way look like they might be might  be having having problems. How um and I  guess Mike this is sort of bigger  question with the whole healthcare  system. How how are your customers  identifying who should call Sagent or  who say they should call in the first  place or I guess you know when when you  come into a to a roll out of using one  of these voice agents how are you  figuring out who to get who gets called  about what?  Sure. Yeah. So I mean Sage can, you  know, insert herself in and we want her  them to her to be inserted in any part  of the patient journey, you know, all  the way from enrolling in programs to  assessing like u Melissa said to doing  transitions of care, doing chronic care  management. And so obviously each of  those have those use cases have target  lists from the payers, the providers  that they want to reach out based on the

use case. So if they identify  you say that but is that really true?  Yeah. Yeah. I mean yeah yeah. So what  they do is they give us they give us  lists, right? And hey, we want to target  these people for enrollment in the  program because they meet the criteria  for that. Or hey, we want you to follow  up with these people, you know, who have  been discharged from the hospital uh  with this specific diagnosis.

Or hey,  there we have these uh diabetics or or  you know, people with multiple  coorbidities and you know, we want to  keep track of them doing some chronic  care management. So here's the list. So  that's how we get the list to do it.  It's just not sort of a free form thing.  It's very they're they're targeted list  based on you know criteria uh for the  use case  and clearly you know any of the health  plans or care management organizations  I've been a member of but that's a  separate issue.

Sorry Melissa  I mean the health plans are trying to  reach millions of members but the  current system is fragmented. It's  expensive and it's often too reactive  and the the human teams are just  stretched. So members don't answer  calls. They don't understand their  benefits. they miss the preventive care  and they like fall through the cracks.

So Sage really gives plans a way to  engage members at scale while kind of  preserving this kind of human clinically  sensitive experience.  And and Mike when you uh have sort of  you know seen a roll out from a clinical  perspective um we mentioned a couple of  use cases. We're going to hear from Sage  in a second doing doing a couple but uh  where where do you think uh where do you  think this kind of um voice AI has the  biggest bang for the buck at the moment?  Uh well, I think uh obviously there are  a lot of people as Melissa sort of uh  intimated that the payers or providers  want to get to and they don't have the  staff to do it. And so the biggest bang  for the buck is just um you know  reaching out to people who they really  want to reach out to but they just don't  have the you know the resources to do it  and to do it also  outside of necessarily possibly outside  of business hours on weekends when you  usually don't have the call centers

available to do that. Um but again in  terms of like the biggest bang for the  buck um  I'm asking I'm kind of asking you know  is is this a problem of medic medication  adherence among medical advantage  members is this that we have undiagnosed  diabetics  I mean it's it runs the gamut I mean if  you take a look at all the pro I mean  you know man I mean that's what you you  know you you explore the health care  system in your podcast and you pick  there's gaps everywhere.

Okay.  It's all screwed up so you have a big  Yeah. I mean, you can't you can't you  can't miss it. Yeah.  All right. You're not getting call  you're not get you're not getting  requests just for one particular type of  thing.  No, not at all.  That's kind of where I've been.  Yeah. The whole  Hey, can I just say something too, Matt?  Sage is different, too, because she was  built by people who understand patients  and not just prompts.

So, she wasn't  built as a generic voice bot and then  pointed at healthcare. So she was shaped  from the beginning by clinicians,  therapists, and like healthcare  operators who understand how vulnerable  these patients and these conversations  can be, you know.  So I that that that's fascinating. I  think we'll get into that after we hear  it, but I think so.

 Why don't why don't  you start with a use case here? I think  you're going to queue one up. Let's hear  Sage in in action and give us a s, you  know, that'll start to give us a sense  for the not only how she female would  sound, but but also, you know, the the  kind of problems that she will run into.  So, in this uh video that I'm going to  play, she's calling a a member who has  not picked up their prescription.

So,  let's listen and hear what she does. Is  that okay?  Yes. Dive in.  Confirmed. Let's chat about your  medications. I see your doctor  prescribed metformin. Do you know why  you are on this medication?  Yeah, I got high sugars.  Oh, I see. Thank you for sharing that,  Lee. How much metformin are you taking?  Is that the white one?  Yes, that's right.

Metformin is a white  pill. How much of it are you taking?  Oh, I like to split that one in half.  Metformin only comes in 500 mg and 1,000  mg doses, and it looks like your doctor  prescribed you 500 mg of metformin. It  sounds like you're taking a different  amount. Tell me a little about that. Are  you having any challenges with taking  the 500 mg?  It makes my stomach hurt when I take the  full pill.

So, I noticed that when I cut  it in half, then it's a little bit  better.  Oh, I'm sorry to hear that it's been  causing you discomfort, Lee. Would you  like me to transfer you to your  prescriber to discuss this further?  No. Do you have any other tips as to how  the metformin can not give me stomach?  It just makes my stomach hurt a lot and  I feel nauseous.

Oh, Lee, I'm so sorry to hear that  you're feeling this way. You're doing  such a great job managing your health  and I know this must be frustrating. Uh,  sometimes taking metformin with food can  help reduce stomach upset. For example,  you could try taking it right after a  meal, like breakfast or dinner. That  might make it a bit gentler on your  stomach.

Would you like me to share more  tips or do you think this might be  helpful for you?  Oh, yeah. I can try to do that. I didn't  know I could take it with food.  That's wonderful. Taking it with food  can really make a difference. Would you  like me to note this down for your  doctor or do you feel comfortable giving  it a try on your own?  Yeah, you can tell my doctor.

That would  be good.  Absolutely. I'll make a note for your  doctor about this. You're doing such a  great job staying on top of your health  and I know your doctor will appreciate  knowing how you're managing. Now, how  often are you taking your metformin?  I take it two times a day.  That's great, Lee. Are you taking it  about 8 to 12 hours apart, like in the  morning and evening?  Yes, I am

That's wonderful to hear, Lee. It sounds  like you're staying consistent and  that's so important for managing your  health. What methods do you use to help  you remember and organize your  medications?  I have a uh little box that has the days  of the week on it and then I like to put  my pills in there so that I just make  sure I don't forget anything.

Oh, that's such a smart system, Lee.  You're really organized and it sounds  like you're doing everything you can to  stay on top of your medications.  How often do you find yourself missing a  dose of your metformin if at all?  Oh, yeah. Hold it there for a second.  So, uh um there's a lot going on in  there, right? So, at first you listen to  Sage and and she's sort of being nice  backwards and forwards and being patient  and be clear and sort of asking for the  question.

 But in the middle of that,  right, there was some advice about how  to deal with side effects. there was the  recognition that there was a problem  with the the the the the side effect of  the stomach hurting in the ping. She  offered to transfer the call to the  prescriber and then later she wanted to  take a note and put that in the the  prescriber the provider's note.

Um  though I might have missed some other  workflow stuff going on, but so so give  me a sense about you know what is  happening behind the scenes here in  terms of what Sage is supposed to be  listening for and what you know what  what LLM or what is she hitting? How how  have you how have you built her so that  she's able to bring up that relevant  knowledge sort of at that at that moment  without going off and you know we all  use clo where it goes off and it sinks  for like 10 minutes or a couple of  seconds where it comes back but this is  kind of instant. So what's going on  behind the scenes here technologically?  You want me to take that Melissa?  No go ahead. Yeah go ahead. Yeah, I mean  obviously what we do is uh we  um so sort of supply Sage with the  knowledge uh of the specific use case  and in this case you know medications  etc of what she needs to know u with  guard rails as you saw to make sure that  she doesn't do anything like uh

 prescribe or s you know suggest certain  therapies or diagnose which is why she  we have this guardrail that says oh you  know if they If they say something like  this, you need to give the offering of  going transferring to, you know, the  provider or to a nurse line. And we we  do that obviously in all cases.

If  someone were to ask for advice, specific  advice, Sage says, "No, we can't. I'm  not a medical professional." If there's  a way to transfer, then we she has to  transfer. So, this is sort of built into  the prompt to be able to do this. And  then we have rebuttals based on you know  if if the person says this then you know  then then Sage should offer this.

So  that that's how we do it. It's again  very structured by around the  guardrails. So Sage doesn't give medical  advice. Um Sage will escalate if she  detects a problem etc.  And we follow the workflow of our of the  customer. So whatever their workflow is  we're sort of following that. So how in  in real life as your customers are  introducing this type of voice AI are  they set up were they always set up with  like the sort of relevant escalation  back up the chamber in the call the care  the call center to an NP or whoever  prescriber would be or you know h I  assume the actual prescriber the the  doctor is probably not available be on  the call straight away but you know  someone on the care team somewhere can  probably help. So what happens in real  life when they if if in this case they  said yes I I do want to talk to my  doctor or I do want to talk to a medical  professional what what's the sort of  care workflow that you have to work into  next  and and that depends on the the customer

but it's usually a transfer depending on  what the transfer is for. In this case  you would probably transfer to a nurse.  They have to have the nurse to be  available. If the nurse isn't available,  they don't have a transfer line  available, then like Sage said, you  know, I'll make a note and and that note  will go to the, you know, into the sort  of the system of record, right? And so  then that and then whoever follows up  with that system of record will see that  and and know to get back to the patient.

Yeah. I'm just sort of wondering how  ready uh healthcare organizations are  for this kind the advantages that this  kind of brings, but also brings  potentially more work, you know,  managing patients.  Yeah. In some cases, you know, we we we  are a lot of cases we're replacing call  centers that do this, right? Uh in other  cases, they haven't been able like you I  think you're sort of suggesting that  they they don't even have humans doing  this in the first place.

And so  obviously they have to sort of make  denovo work uh workflows to accommodate  this.  So Melissa Melissa, we have to we have  to say something there.  Yeah. Yeah.  All right. Well, well, well. Um, well,  then I think the next case you have is  the same call, but I think it's uh  dealing with finances. So, do you want  to go on a bit?  Yeah, we'll just kind of continue.

Sometimes the $200 a month, it becomes a  lot. You know, I'm on a fixed income  and, you know, if it's just too much,  then sometimes I'll I'll skip a dose  because I just it doesn't last I can't I  I'm trying to make it last more than a  month. Oh, Lee, I completely understand  how challenging that can be.

You're  doing your best, and I really admire  your effort to manage everything. I see  your current pharmacy is the Walgreens  at 2700 Remington Avenue, Baltimore. Is  that correct?  Yeah.  Okay, just give me a second. I see that  there's a CVS at 32000 St. Paul Street  in Baltimore, which may be cheaper for  you.

Would you like to shiftarmacies?  Oh, yeah. If it's going to be cheaper,  that would be wonderful.  That's great, Lee. Let me send a note to  your provider's office. Now, let's talk  about your second medication.  So, in that in that case, um a a this  person,  this person is either confused because  their formula is 200 [laughter] bucks a  month, but anyway, but ignoring that, um  there may be some other drug they're  paying, which may well be 200 bucks a  month.

Um, so you you're you're  basically saying is is Sage now hitting  against a database or what's going on in  the background there so that Sage can  suggest this other database or this  other pharmacy.  So she knows the address where the  member is and is able through, you know,  via API to figure out where there is a  closer pharmacy with a potentially  cheaper, you know, co-pay.

Uh, I mean,  how I would assume that if you're  dealing with I mean, I know that CVS is  one of your investors and potentially I  don't know if they're a customer as yet,  but given they have a they they have  their own PBM and and mail order that  there's presumably a lot of in the  background there's a lot of potential  switching going on here, you know,  hopefully for hopefully to improve the  experience and the and and the and the  the cost for the customer.

[laughter]  I can chuckle about that because I've  had my own experience back and forth  with with them them. But nonetheless,  you know, I I think that that strikes me  as being a, you know, big opportunity  again.  Um, cool. And and then how much are you  seeing that kind of thing play out down  the line? I mean, at some point, you  know, there are there are people trying  to develop databases for drug pricing  and all other kinds of financial  assistance.

I see them financially  finances being what they are in  healthcare. That's a big problem that  you know a lot of people run into. How  much demand are we you know do we see to  for you to integrate with all these  transparency databases or is that sort  of um coming along more slowly?  I think that's coming along like I think  that's more down the road.

Right now  we're like really just sort of getting  into the the workflow of our current  customer and really trying to kind of  meet the needs for the patient. So I  don't I mean Mike you might know  differently than I do but I don't  yeah I mean we're being opportunistic  Matt right um if the use case sort of  demands that like in this in this in  this instance then you know we'll  integrate with the database we've had  some others with the we had to do some  scheduling like uh with the the lab core  request then we do that if they you know  if the use case demands it but the right  now I think um you know as this  technology is being adopted did people  are sort of starting off with crawl walk  run  and so it's more of the simple workflows  and then what they when they see that it  works then they start piling on the more  complex that's where you get the  integrations.  Yeah, that's exactly right. It kind of  starts out and I we've been doing this  for a while and we started out with the

first few use cases were just very  simple enrollment and now it's gotten a  lot more complex and and complicated so  we function deep within the workflow.  Yeah, I would I would imagine that that  you know a as people get more and more  comfortable with it, there's a lot more  they consider they can do and there are  a lot of things obviously around you  know stuff that's going to get more and  more closer to the medical device and  more and more about the 

integration into  the rest of the medical workflow and  then obviously costs are going to be  three big chunks. I will not yet put  Sage on my attempt to get uh Marine  Health to uh allow my imaging visit that  may have been a large article in THCB  last year at some point. But uh and I do  note that when I when I deal with my  friends at UCSF, I am consistently  getting calls from their scheduling  department, they do not yet have a bot  that has figured that out. So either you  guys should go and sell them something  or you know there are there are still  problems there. Um, on that note, you  you mentioned earlier, Melissa, doing

assessments, and I think you got a  a version of assessment that you can  play us, but I assume that there's a lot  of that that again probably doesn't get  done well or gets gets done poorly and  probably could be done a lot more for uh  for health plans and others trying to  figure out care management organizations  and providers trying to figure out  what's going on with their people.

So,  there you can show us.  Yeah, I can. Yeah, let's play a health  risk assessment. And this is, you know,  outreach to members who haven't  responded to, you know, some of the  traditional channels of outreach. So,  here is, "Hi, this is Sage, a virtual  health coach calling from on a recorded  line. May I speak with  Yeah, this is him.

I'd like to check in with you and guide  you through a quick health  questionnaire. It helps us spot any  potential health needs early on and  ensures we're on the same page to best  support your health goals. Do you have a  few minutes to answer some questions?  Yes,  please make this quick.  Thank you for agreeing to continue to  help us build a better picture of your  overall health and how we can best  support your well-being.

It's useful to  touch on a few different aspects of your  daily life. I'd like to ask you a few  questions about how you've been feeling  in general. How would you say your  health is these days? Excellent, good,  fair, or poor?  Well, I'm I'm a 70 year old guy, so I  don't really have that good of health,  so I would call it fair.

Thank you for sharing that. Would you  classify your response as excellent,  good, fair, or poor?  I would call it fair.  Thank you for confirming. Let's talk a  bit about how you've been feeling  physically in the past 3 days. How much  pain have you felt? Say on a scale from  0 to 10.  I have arthritis.  So it is usually painful on most days  and it is around seven out of 10.

Thank you for sharing that. I understand  arthritis can be quite challenging.  Thinking back over the last 12 months,  have you been treated for any ongoing or  significant health conditions? For  example, things like diabetes, stroke,  asthma, cancer, congestive heart  failure, high blood pressure, anxiety or  panic disorder, bipolar disorder, major  depressive disorder, or COPD.

Well, I have diabetes and arthritis.  Thank you for letting me know. Do you  happen to take five or more medications  each day? This would include both  prescriptions and over-the-counter  medications and vitamins.  Yeah, I do.  Thank you for sharing that. Just a few  more questions. Thank you for  So, she's Sage is is again doing quite a  lot there.

So, one thing is right in the  very first part, I noticed that that uh  it wasn't very clear what he said. She  was trying to get him to answer a survey  scale and then she kind of rather  politely went, "Oh, okay. Um, would you  say that?" You know, basically politely  forced him into giving the the answer,  right? And then after that, there's a  lot of probing around what kind of other  things are going on.

And I suspect that  there's a lot that we don't know. I  mean, a lot that the health system and  the plan and others do not know about  their members, right? They're probably  quite hard to reach. Not to mention,  she's dealing in this case with somebody  who has a, you know, nontraditional  American accent and has to listen to  that.

So there's a bunch of stuff going  on there. What what what what's the most  challenging part for a you know the  recognition or is the recognition and  the and the interpretation pretty easy?  So what's the most difficult  for for the bot when they have to deal  with you know people with who are if you  like slightly all over the place in  their responses but also uh have  confusing accents or elderly or you know  don't speak clearly or whatever.

Is there something challenging there or  is this something that AI has just  fixed?  No, I think I think something that we've  worked on that I would say that actually  Sage is probably better than most humans  in being very patient with people and  you can kind of see she's she never gets  tired of people asking questions or and  it can kind of answer and but will  always refocus the conversation.

So I  think that is she's really good at that  kind of being always empathetic and it  doesn't show up in tone with a human.  You might get frustrated. You'll say the  right words but it'll show up in your  tone and it doesn't with Sage. I would  say that in general what's challenging  is and this is something we've made a  lot of progress on where if someone says  can you speak louder? Can you go a  little slower? That's something where  we've been working on and made quite a  bit of progress.

So, the different  pacing of of the conversation  and making Sage able to kind of adjust  to what the patient is saying. But  again, we've been doing this for a  while. We're one of the earlier  companies doing it. So, we've I think  really perfected a lot of the stuff in  the weeds because if you think about it,  a bot only knows what you train it to  do.

And there's a lot of unspoken things  that humans know intuitively. And you  don't realize that until you're sort of  trying to train a bot and you realize  they just don't get it. So  So I mean so this there are two parts we  can go down there. I think we should  start on this one which is like the the  and this leads us into the question of  of the law you want 

to get to which is  you know do we need a separate voice AI  company?  What are the what's been the impact of  having a specialist sort of more  empathetic healthcare centered voice bot  compared to you know you can you can  talk to Claude you can talk to open AI  and they have a voice that will talk  back and forth with you but it's just  manufactured and hasn't been trained  this way and then I would put in that  one of the things that S does she answer  pretty quickly there's a lot of latency  in some of these other ones and and that  the lack of the latency is a big issue  for for bot conversations So  yeah,  what what's tell me a bit more about  what's special other than that you two

are geniuses and figured it all out.  I I mean again I think the  differentiation is that we bring  clinical and emotional intelligence into  v uh like voice AI and because of our  vocal biomarker you know intellectual  property and the data set we're building  toward a future where Sage can not only  understand what a patient is saying but  also pick up on signals on how the  patient is saying it.

whether there's  stress, hesitation, a flatness, any  anxiety or emotional stress and respond  in a way that's more clinically  appropriate. That's something that we're  building right now. Um, and so I would  say that like when you talk about OpenAI  and CLA and Claude with Anthropic, they  don't live deep into the workflows and  that's like very um it's very  complicated the the orchestration.

So a  lot of these pieces have been  commoditized but the orchestration is  where it becomes very complex. So I  don't think it's something that OpenAI  or Anthropic would number one want to do  or kind of be able to easily do. So, and  and I would argue that Sage is different  from other voice AI companies because a  lot of voice AI companies are built to  complete tasks, but you know, Sage is  really built from the bottom up to  engage patients and complete tasks and  engage them because again, we had  clinicians and therapists building Sage  from the very first days. Like Mike and  I have been on the ground floor from day  one. So we knew how she needed to be,  not just what she needed to do. So it's  the how, just not the what.  Yeah. And and and there are a lot of of  companies, you know, there are other

voice companies who come in who are  trying to do multiple industries and  trying trying to do multiple  That's right.  things. Um and obviously there are there  are a few others specializing in in in  healthcare. Um Hypocratic obviously has  had a lot of lot of uh fuss and and and  and uh and notoriety around it.

Um there  but there are sort of two things going  on here. One is that there is the issue  of will people talk to bots and there's  been some back and forth about this and  you know you can look up some of the uh  some of the Facebook reviews of some of  the other of the companies that have  tried it and haven't done haven't done  great.

Um and then the other sort of  related question is again how much more  are you getting out of these  conversations if you have Sage versus a  more standardized you know robotic voice  bot that's not trained on in healthcare  not trained in the model. So give me a  sense of how you think that is playing  out. So what's the results usage? Well,  I again because I think we from the  beginning days where we started to build  Sage, we kind of started with a robotic  voice and the just the engagement was  very low.

And so what happened is then  we started iterating iterating and  building and trying to sort of figure  out what would work and what wouldn't  work. Um, and that's where a lot of our  kind of therapeutic  interventions that are woven into Sage,  but I don't think other companies have  or other voice bots. So, I I would argue  that like people willing to talk, they  don't, you know, we we noticed a huge  difference when we kind of changed the  tone, the intonation, the voice, got rid  of the latency.

And again, those are the  those are sort of in the weeds. Like  it's easy to build a bot. Like you can  get sort of 80% there. But the  difference between the 80 and the 98% is  like a that's it's vast and it takes  years and a lot of really figuring out  the edge cases  and not just in what she's saying but  how she's saying it.

It's actually very  interesting and very complicated.  So  So how is this playing out Mike? And I  know what metrics you guys are  measuring. it's time time with customers  on on hold all of repeat calls or how  how do you think about you know showing  whether this is working or task  completed within the calls or whatever  and then presumably the other one is  sort of market acceptance you know how I  I assume that every potential customer  you're going to has been attacked by  hypocratic and 27 other you know 

voice  or nonvoice AI companies and you know  everyone's saying they they can do this  that and the other so give me give me  your flavor of of what are you looking  out what are the metrics that you think  you're doing well on and how is it being  picked up in the market? Yeah, I mean  the the metrics that we're looking at  right now um are the actually somewhat  traditional call center operational  metrics like call retrate like how many  people do you actually talk to and then  out of those people how many people do  you talk to do do they succeed do you

succeed in getting to do the task uh and  so those are some of the common ones  obviously later down the line as we get  more data and that's being collected now  um from our customers is you know what's  the clinical ical outcomes like do we  you know this do we make a dent in that  because that's important and also the  medex right but those things are sort of  a longer tail uh but so but but we work  on those operational metrics at the  beginning like you know how many people  hang up where do they hang up you know  what portion is because that helps us

decide where the engagement is or when  we need to tweak it for optimization  and then what about you know acceptance  market when you go and talk to customers  um obviously you have you can tell me a  little bit more about about who you who  you're working with now and what kind of  stuff you're doing. We've seen some  examples, so I'm sure there are others,  but um what are you hearing from them  about sort of rolling this concept of  voice a  voice AI out to [clears throat] patients

and members for general engagement as a  whole?  Yeah, like I mentioned before, they they  were taking a crawl walk run approach,  right? So they'll start off with a you  know sort of a proof of concept where  they'll do it when first within a sort  of limited set of members and also a  very specific use case and then as they  see 

that that works well they expand  that to you know large number of members  and then they start also sort of uh hip  hopping to the the next sort of use case  that you know may be adjacent or maybe  totally different. I mean I think  especially in these large organizations  like the large payers you know you get  one success and then you know the word  gets around to other departments you  know it's usually a hydra in terms like  there's multiple heads of different you  know business units and then they hear  and then they start thinking oh well  there's success here and now we should  try it. So that that's how it's sort of  worked and also it's important I wanted

to say that that that they are also very  uh concerned about safety and that's  another thing they can't just take open  AI or or claude or whatever uh and and  actually apply it because I was talking  about the guardrails before those are  really important because obviously in  healthcare you got to make sure that you  know you're not you're not um helping  patients harm harm themselves or helping  them to do things that they really  shouldn't be doing or exploiting them in  bad ways.

Yeah. I mean, sorry, go.  Oh, I was just going to say we're really  seeing strong commercial traction with  these major health plans. We've engaged  with nine of the top 15 plans and we're  live with one of the largest regional  Blues plans. And for us, that's a  meaningful signal because these these  organizations, they're not experimenting  with AI for fun.

They're really trying  to find solutions that can safely engage  members, like Mike said, reduce  administrative burden and really improve  their access to care at scale, which  they struggle to do with just their  humans.  Yeah. My previous call uh to you was  with Blue Shield of California customer  service in the Philippines, echoing  three times, and [laughter] I can't tell  you was I actually made them call me  back. It was still terrible.

I  eventually got transferred to somebody  in the States. you know that there is a  really big problem those organizations  have. I pick on Blue Shield a lot  because I was a member until recently.  Um you know that they have with basic  customer service and I mentioned there  are a bunch of other workflow things  that patients get put through which are  which which are rough.

What what's your  sense? I mean you said okay you're live  with the blues with the regional blues.  You've got a bunch of interest from the  other uh commercials. I know CBS health  is an investor in the last round. I can  see where this is going. What's your  sense about where you get from being the  edge cases and the crawling to the uh to  the sort of fast walking and the running  for a whole bunch of stuff? Because I  would much rather talk 

to an intelligent  bot than someone in the Philippines who  has to ask me 7,800 questions when I  can't hear properly.  Yeah. Well, really our ambition is not  to build a singlepurpose like call bot,  but really to build Sage to become like  a personalized healthcare agent so that  there's one trusted voice that can help  a member navigate whatever they need,  whether it's enrollment or care  management or benefits or appointments  or medication questions or preventative  care or behavioral health, you name it.  So that it's it's basically a single  purpose like health care agent.

So and we don't think it's a a it's a  different bot for every disease or every  department really. It's they people need  like a personalized health care agent  that kind of knows the member and  understands the context and can really  help them navigate the health care  system.  To be fair, Melissa, that is not what  the experience for someone calling a  current call center is right.

You have  multiple different in the call. I just  had I was transferred between between uh  two different departments for admin  right because it was a different type  one was health was on metal health call  and uh there are you know and the goal  that a lot of the navigation companies  you talk to the transparency or the  included health of the world you know or  the quantum they're 

trying to like put  one person on the phone or who's like an  advocate for the patient across admin  and clinical stuff and it's been very  hard for big healthcare organizations to  do that. I mean I just mentioned you  know I I I am called by from UCSF in  just one department. I've been called by  five different people from you know two  different coordinator types of  coordinator uh uh uh the the clinical co  doing admin stuff to the clinical co  coordinator um a nurse practitioner and  the actual doctor themselves. And you  know I'm sure they're all sharing  information somehow in the epic record  but I mean that's one small relatively  small department. I'm not getting one

voice for what I for what I I need. And  as I said, you know, the current health  care experience is pretty bad and also  doesn't integrate across even simple  stuff like, you know, scheduling and  appointments and they're still sending  you PDFs of of stuff printed out as to  what you expect and yeah,  I think we're a long we're a long way  from Nana.

So, I love what you're  saying.  You need to hurry up. [laughter]  Yeah. I mean I think also um when the  adoption of AI for uh you know just  internal workflow processes is going to  make it easier to put all these these  pieces together. So let's go there,  Mike, because that's that's to me the  next part, right? So you are a voice AI  company, but you're not a general AI  workflow company.

I mentioned already,  you know, touching base with the  provider and and touching base with the  databases. At some point, what happened?  Where do we have to get to to have the  voice AI integrate directly into the  system of record? you know, putting in  pushing data um and also, you know,  helping that and and basically taking  over some of the more limited clinical  functions from the the humans.

And at  what point does does do you have to  think about are we just being voice  doing enough or do we have to integrate  with a bunch of other AI capabilities  and or you know how how are you thinking  about that as an ellipsus? Yeah, I mean  first of all we already do integrate  like for example with Epic we integrate  with HealthCloud, Salesforce  HealthCloud.

So we're already doing that  type of integration as I told you before  those integrations for scheduling. Um  you know I where we see sort of in the  immediate and sort of midterm future is  that we become just the voice platform  for interaction with the patient you  know and you know that that's still  saying a lot.

I mean we're we're taking  in data uh we're taking in data both in  an unstructured and structured format  right and then we're pushing that into  and we'll integrate with any other  system now obviously within when you  integrate with those systems they'll  have some other RPA or other AI  processes which will then 

feed back to  us right and for example like if we want  to call someone again um you know or we  want to tells them for the first time,  those processes can feed us information  about the patient to help with  engagement. So, we know their name, we  know, you know, their their provider, we  know when their next appointment is. So,  we're sort of like the that conduit um  of information going to the patient and  getting uh information back from the  patient. And right now, that's um you  know, we do with voice. We're starting  to do it with chat now. We can do it  with chat rather if people don't want to

have voice. And so that's that's how you  know we see it. We we sort of want to  own that. You become the voice platform,  but it also becomes the information  exchange platform between the patient  and the health care system.  Yeah. I mean I So it's a I'm going back  to the call I had earlier today. It's  you know when I got transferred from one  section to another, I had to tell them  everything about myself again. Right.

Again. Yeah. We're really, you know,  we're still  I know  what the care the call centers you're  competing with are not great.  It's my movie, you know, and and the  experience and and and you can tell even  people who put on chat bots onto their  website, you tell the ones where they  actually thoughtfully try to integrate  the chatbot with an LLM to actually more  versus the ones that are just, you know,  if you can't click one of these four  four answers, we can't help you.

Call  back to our call center. And you know I  I think that that I hope will be a  distinction between healthcare  organizations and the ones that don't  figure this out will start I mean this  has been said many times over the last  30 years you know when they don't when  they piss off the consumer the consumer  will go somewhere else actually ever  happen we'll find out but I mean you got  to hope that that that that you know  

things like Sage will will start being a  big difference for that and give them  the ability to actually personalize this  and make it a make it a better  experience for the for people on the  other end of the phone.  Okay, that's my editorial over. All  right, let's wrap. Um, let's talk a bit  about the company Ellipsis. Uh, give me  a quick thumbnail. You guys have now  raised about 70 million. It was a raiser  what year back around 45 million. I  meant you mentioned I mentioned CVS, but  Cocoa was in there and Salesforce and  some some some others have have  invested. Give me give me a quick sense

of where you are scale ways scale-wise  and where you are in the market.  Go ahead, Mike. You want to take that?  Um, yeah. So,  one of you should know this even though  neither of the CEO just  I thought she was gonna take it.  Well, yeah.  Um, where where we are in the market, I  mean, and Melissa already said, you  know, nine of the 15 top health plans,  one of the top regional blues.

Um, you  know, we are, um, obviously you're going  to go for another round of financing  imminently. Um, and, um, so  sky's is the limit. I mean really  it's  okay let me ask you a br a more brutal  question right we've had a lot money  been raised by hypocratic in one company  there are a bunch of there are a  gazillion other companies who have  raised money for in in AI not  necessarily in voice but in AI in  general especially go after the admin  piece and and the RCM and now you're

seeing the companies who raised a ton of  money to do ambient scribing within the  organization organizations moving over  and starting to do coding and starting  to do starting to do more put things on  the pies. Then you have a whole bunch of  other companies. I'm thinking of  Inavasa, Innova here, Kimure, you know,  Cumous, a bunch of others who've raised  a ton of money to uh to do all things  that they can do within the context of  helping providers, helping helping

plans. Um, you know, do you think what's  your when when you're asked this  question either by investors or by  customers as to, you know, how how how  vile is it for a company that's raised  only 70 million, you know, [laughter]  to to to be around you to be around in a  future where you've got all this kind of  stuff and Epics's doing its thing and  and all, you know, all the rest of it.

What's your answer to that question?  Well, you want me to go? Um,  yeah. Yeah. Look, first of all, we are  very committed to healthcare. You know,  obviously, as Melissa said, you know, we  have me, her, there's other clinicians,  uh, you know, that work for Ellipsus  and, you know, we're committed to that  mission of healthcare specifically.

We  feel that it's, you know, it, as you  know, I mean, even I was a clinician  for, you know, three decades and I  didn't really fully understand the  business of medicine. It's very complex.  It's it's very nichy. So um I don't feel  like these companies that you know are  trying like you said doing everything  they're in um multiple uh markets really  

can perform and understand well enough  to create a product that will work  within this specified you know this  I think they'll get frustrated don't you  think too I mean healthcare is like its  own everybody in healthcare understands  it's his own little beast you have to be  a certain a special snowflake to be  working in healthare care. I mean, it's  just Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  I think we're undervalued probably,  Matthew. I mean, the truth is is like we  we've really gotten incredible traction  and really again have built the product

from like in the weeds and it's a really  solid product. So,  I'm not I'm by I'm not saying that  raising $500 million or whatever the  number is is necessarily the privilege  of success. We've seen a bunch of people  who've done that and have not and are  either not no longer around or or are  struggling.

So, you know, there's no  nothing wrong with taking a bit of a,  you know, cruel walk. And we're kind of  kidding. The $70 million is a shitload  of money. And the fact, you know, it's  not like you've raised nothing. Um, it's  not like you haven't made made progress.  I'm not trying to say that at all. You  know, maybe that's the the answer.

I'm  I'm just thinking, you know, it is a  confusing time for people within  healthcare to be buying AI. And you know  I think when you come along and say we  have a very specific voice AI there's a  very specific set of tasks very well and  we can express doing other things but  it's very special is a special snowflake  as you said Melissa I think uh you know  that that's a an approach and I'm I'm  interested to see how the uh how the  market you know continues to absorb  that.

I think what's will likely happen  if you look at across healthcare  historically is that you know a lot of  people have locked up particular  little verticals within healthcare you  haven't noticed and probably somebody  will lock up well maybe one or two  companies will lock up voice and will  not be displaced by other other  companies but I 

mean you know anybody  who tries to predict where the hell AI  is going is well they might as well buy  the SpaceX IPO I guess [laughter]  I mean the truth is too like we  eventually we we're working on the  multimodal I mean a lot of what we can  do you know we can do via SMS as well or  you know via some sort of messaging and  that's something we're building the  voice part is a lot more challenging  than the you know text part of it  and I think also there's a big age  differential I was talking to to another  organization recently which has humans  who call humans and uh you know there's  a special group of people whe they're  more elderly chronically ill different  whatever who like voice right and a

bunch of people who like text and chat  and you know  and combos by the way. So we're doing  combos like we'll text and then call. So  we're finding the combination to engage  people you know it's like you might not  pick up your phone unless someone texts  you and say hey I'm going to call you in  a couple minutes and then you'll pick up  because you know so we're sort of  figuring out all the little tricks.

Yeah. Also, also I think Matt the um  when I we thought a lot about this and  about the generational differences of  interaction, right, like you said, but I  think when it comes to certain things,  people are going to want voice. Like if  you want to talk about some serious  diagnosis or some really complex, you  know, issues involved like with  treatments and stuff.

I think I don't  think texting is gonna even the people  like text, I think at that point they're  going to transition.  Pick up the phone. the phone, they need  to have that synchronous interaction for  these really concerning things like the  more day-to-day stuff. Totally get it.  But when you get into some more serious  issues like, you know, cancer treatment,  uh, you know, survival rates, things  like that, they're not going to  necessarily want to text stuff like  that.

Even just medication management and  stuff, you know. Yeah. It's just quicker  sometimes to pick up the phone and deal  with it rather than like  Yeah. Especially if it requires a lot of  text to  Well, it's also interesting like people  are doing more voice to text too now  which is sort ofating. Yeah.  No, and look and I think this is it's a  new world, right? And we're we're  figuring this all out.

I mean, I think  that the the hope is that uh you know,  Ellipsis and other companies like you  can, you know, like I said, help that  sort of consumer healthcare interface  which is continues to be a mess for a  lot of people. [laughter]  speak speaking personally but also you  know as as one as one of many um you  know and we know that that that that  changes so great to catch up with both  of you.

I've been speaking with Melissa  Mcool as a COO Mike Aratau as the chief  medical officer of Ellipsis Health which  as we've heard for the last you know  little bit has been making a lot of  waves and is doing a lot in the voice AI  plus category within healthcare. Melissa  Mike thanks for your time.  Thank you Matt. Thank  you. Thanks.