Title: Glen Tullman, CEO, Transcarent
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B3qsTl2PxTg
Language: en
Duration: 48:48
Upload Date: May 7, 2025

Transcription:

[Music] Matthew Halt, the healthcare blog, back with a guy I've never interviewed before. I'm kidding. This is Glenn Tulman, uh CEO of Transparent, and uh we are catching up because since I've actually last had you on here, Glenn, it's been a while. You've done some things, including spent a bit of money on buying up on a previous rival, now part of Transparent Accolade. So uh and and then you know there is a lot happening in the world but let's start with transparent and accolade um uh an

over $600 million acquisition which is not chump change but you got it kind of cheaper than it was a few months before that um and it's added something it was it was coasting on something in the $400 million revenue. So you know a real a real company we real like with with with real growth um going on there. talk to me. Uh, it's pretty obvious to me why you did it. Um, enables you to get into a lot of customers and markets more quickly, but it also get got you some more capabilities, the metic

capabilities that look somewhat similar to what Transcar already had. So, can you break it down to me so that the why and then the what? Sure. Well, one, it's always great to see you and it has been too long. So, appreciate the opportunity to talk about this. I think this is really going to be when we look back at it a few years from now transformational not just for transparent but also for the industry in in in in its entirety. When you think about bringing the companies together, first and foremost,

the fact that this was completed on what was tariff Tuesday, um it was the largest uh transaction done in the US that day, I believe, and over half a billion dollars, $620 million. And I think it was completed because there was so much interest in seeing the companies come together, seeing what we could create. And you talked about the reason first and foremost the ability to get so many great people doing what they do every day. And I always think that the core of a merger is about people. And

this is not an acquisition, it's a merger. Why? If you look at the go forward management team all selected today, what you'll see is a blending of both businesses and more capabilities than we've ever had. So number one, people, number two, capabilities. They had a number of things that we didn't have. They had advocacy. They were a leader in advocacy. We didn't have that. They had, you know, expert medical opinion, the leader in the entire space, you know, second MD. And so that was

really good. And then in terms of kind of going forward, they also had number three, if we think about it, they had uh the ability to do virtual primary care. both were companies but also direct to consumer. So three things we didn't have zero overlap from that perspective. And last but not least, they had some extremely uh welldeveloped capabilities to do personalization, use data to actually do personalization. And so all those capabilities fit perfectly into what we had. And so when you look at that and

then last but not least kind of where you started and not to leave commercial out they have an extraordinary base of clients which we're happy to now be able to market to. So when you put together their capabilities and our capabilities, both wayfinding and the leader in generative AI that's actually making a difference for people paired with care experiences, um that really makes for a nice fit. It also gets us to a scale that's substantial. You know, we've we've talked about doing more than $500

million in revenue. Um very important. We've talked about hitting profitability. Um, and so all those things are important in terms of the next step of where the industry is going. But this allows us, both companies were really focused on three things. One, creating an experience that people don't just like, they love. That's really important because if people don't like the experience, they don't use it. You don't get the benefit. Second, a focus on quality first and that is delivering high quality care.

And last but not least, um, in terms of looking at that, doing it at literally a lower cost, not bending the curve. We hear about we're going to bend the curve. We're going to slow the rate of increase. That's not going to get it done. What we have to do is actually reduce the cost. And if you look at our premier clients using the entire platform, they are driving their cost of health care down. Not reducing the increase, driving it down. So that's what we're we're really excited about.

The other thing I'd say is having done just a few of these and you have I notice I notice a little gray hair. I have some too. and both of us have been around and I've done a few of these and you learn some things and one of the things you learn is day one to make sure you're ready to go. Not that you're figuring it out. So, we have the leadership team, we have the benefits worked out, we have everything we need to do and we're off and running. And one of the commitments we've made to our

clients is there's no reduction. You don't lose anything. This is all about you have more choice and more access than you ever had before from either one of the companies standalone. So let let's talk a bit about that. I want to just go into one specific thing which is that you had purchased 986 which uh was sort of textbased communication with uh with clinicians. They had plushare which was a company by the way health 2.0 was Plushkare's first ever customer way back when. And uh I have a funny story which

isn't funny about my lack of taking on some uh some being on their being on their note back in the day but anyway we'll ignore that for a second of how Matthew gave up lots of money when he should have made some is another story but but um you know they had they had that tellahalth capability. what it looks like to me and you can tell me how distinct those two things are and obviously a lot of what is in wayfinding the AI platform you know came out of 986 but I mean what is it seems to me that

everyone in that in the space and now turbocharged have been moving to saying we can essentially be the primary care doc for our customers and then do all this other stuff. So is that right? Is that where you're going for? And then or are you or are most people you expecting going to use other primary care doctors and just use you for urgent care or what have you? And then what does that enable you to do? Because my impression has always been the primary care doctor should be the ultimate navigator if I

can say that word. Um but it hasn't always happened. So how is that how do you foresee that part of the business playing out? This is about five questions you've asked in one question. But the but the question is really how does Primary fit? I got it. I got it. So, first and foremost, you talked about our acquisition of 98.6 and that was an acquisition as opposed to the merger we're doing now. What did we like about 98.6? So, everyone said, well, this gives you great chat capabilities to

answer questions and what we now call care in 60 seconds. Um, what they didn't understand was we were able to acquire a database of five years of documented history that we can now feed into our LLMs to make us better and smarter about how we provide care. So, no one really understood that asset that we were getting which was worth the cost of the entire company as we've come to find out. So, that's number one. So, then we develop wayfinding. But if you think about the experience that you and

everyone else wants, here's what it is. Something goes wrong. You have a health challenge and you go to your phone and you basically you you're going to your phone and you pick up your phone and you simply ask a question. Now, you can get a number of answers. That question might be an AI answer, which is, "Hey, I have a sinus infection. I think and that sinus infection that I think I have is because I have a headache and my sinus is hurt and I'm getting some discharge. And the AI might say, "That sounds like

a sinus infection." Now, you might choose to say, "I want to chat with a doc, a real doc, and I want to do it right now because I'm busy. I'm moving. I'm working at a factory. I'm using my hands. I can't sit in front of a screen like we're doing today." That's available today from Transaren called Karen 60 seconds. But you might also want to say, I want to schedule a visit and do a video consult like we're doing now with a doctor and I want it to be

the same doctor I always use. That now is available that was available from accolade. We did not have it. They didn't have care in 60 seconds. But you may go one step further. If you're working at Apple, you have docs on site. You might say, "I want to work with one of the docs on-site or I want to work with a third-party on-site provider. Can you schedule that appointment for me?" The answer is yes, we can. Or you may want to say, "I want to go to one medical or another third-party provider,

or I want to go to my own doctor." all of that one transaction, one place for all your health and care available and that's what we've created. So the answer is there's not one answer because everybody needs something differently and each of those is a separate price point. Companies might say if you do care in 60 seconds it's faster for you, it's better for us. It keeps you out of the ER um all day long we'll pay for that. They might say, "If you want to do a teleaalth visit or virtual primary

care, we've got to do a co-pay." Every company's going to handle it different, every individual. Our job is to give you choice, put the consumer back in charge of their care. And let me say that our technology, the investments we've made are allowing us to do that in every area. Let me give you one more example. And no one can do this. No one can do what I just described. No one can do what I'm about to describe. You get a prescription. Your phone all of a sudden buzzes and you get a choice. And choice

is what's important here, Matthew. The choice says, would you like to go to your normal place to pick up the prescription? CVS, Walgreens, Walmart. You might say yes. Second choice, there's a coupon for the medication you're taking. Would you like to take advantage of that? It's 1.2 2 miles away from where you're standing now. You might say yes. Here's the third one. Would you like it delivered to your home from Amazon? Number four is, would you like to sign up for mail order? Now, with one

touch, all of those are now available to you, not in the future, today. So, again, that's what's called being empowered by technology. But the other piece of that is it's not just technology. We're making our doctors much more available, much faster than ever before. And so that's what the future needs to look like. And we're delivering that. When people see that, when they see wayfinding, um, that's a differentiator. And that's just so far beyond what traditional

navigation used to be, which is call us and we'll try to figure it out for you. But we're confused, too. Um, I mean, the reality is faster than you can snap your finger, I can not only tell you that your benefit might be 8020, but I can tell you exactly what it will cost you right now for that procedure because I'm hooked into your accumulator. I know what the procedure cost and again, it's about empowering people with information and giving them better access. So this is this is the difference between a flip

phone which you remember Matthew I don't really remember it but you remember that um the iPhone did everything and this is that difference we're seeing a generational transformational change and transarents leading it. So I mean I think that's great and there is you know speaking as somebody who has both myself and kids and family you know the the mess that is pharmacy alone you fixing that and integrating that and how that hasn't been integrated with primary care before you know that's the huge consumer

convenience but you also said we're we're saving money right we're we're doing this for less at our big clients um there's been a lot of attempts over the years as you very well know you know Kaiser from 1937 when Kaiser started onwards, right, to try to do sort of primary care based um getting to the right answer first, getting the cheaper answers, getting to the right surgery, not the wrong surgery, all that kind of stuff. Where where do you think that you're seeing the savings? Where where

do you think the the the approach to transparent now with accolade has is generating those savings for those customers? We're seeing the savings across the board in virtually every service we provide. So let's start off with number one. Giving people rapid access to care leads to better decisions. And so Karen 60 seconds not only saves all of us time, individuals time, but it also gets people information faster and better. And I can use a very personal example. You know, my youngest son, who's not so young

anymore, um but he still has type 1 diabetes. um that probably won't go away. I hear maybe I I know I know you will not be fun. Maybe it will, but not for a while. We we are gonna find a cure for it and we're we're spending a lot of time and energy and effort to do that and we're getting closer. But when something would happen uh with him and it was the middle of the night and we couldn't reach a physician, we were on the way to the ER, thousands of dollars. today that would

be handled instantly by one of our doctors and that would prevent just that kind of experience and there are lots of situations like that. If we move to pharmacy, we can go in and save every company that is using traditional pharmacy hundreds of thousands if not millions of dollars for the same exact medications they're using. And we can save consumers money. So we have something called pharmacy marketplace. You put in your medication and it shops for you with our partners like Good RX, like Mark Cuban cost plus and it shops

for you. And it says, "Matthew, you can go to this Walgreens, but if you went over here to that CVS, the same exact drug, same distance from your house, maybe closer, and it might be5 or $10 cheaper for you, or there might be a coupon that waves your co-pay. So, that's saving both the company and you uh dollars. If we go to surgery, we know that the top places that do surgery that we contract with, they guarantee us the lowest rate. But that's not where the real savings are because I want our best physicians to

get paid more. The real savings are preventing surgeries that shouldn't happen in the first place. And our process actually has people get an informed second opinion prior to getting surgery. If they want to participate in our process, that's what they do. That reduces on things like back surgery as much as 25% to the back surgeries. We have an expert, not us, not a payer, an expert get on the phone and say, "Matthew, this surgery is dangerous for you. It's not the right thing. I would

not recommend it." And two other things, cancer care, getting people the right care and the right experience. And last but not least, weight health, making sure that people are using GLP1s correctly. All of those are cost saves. And you know there's also an administrative save because the reality is you know companies like Quantum are charging two to 3x what they should be for the services we're providing today. And I understand it. They have a lot of good people who are working behind the

scenes to do things. We've used technology to automate that process. And we've also made it so easy. Let me give you an example. If I lost my insurance card, which has happened a few times. I can simply say to my phone, can you pull up my insurance card? And it's there faster than I can dial a number. I don't need to call somebody um to ask them to send me a new card. I have it real time all the time available to me. So everything we do is quality first, number one. Number two, making

sure an experience that people enjoy. And that might mean by way touching a key and talking to a person or a doctor or a behavioral health therapist. The other thing I'd say is we now have the largest experience store in the industry. Well, what's an experience store? You know, it's what accolade used to call their trusted partner ecosystem. And basically it's saying we will hook in to top players, you know, in digital health like a sword or a hinge in, you know, across the board.

You look at the top providers and we're connected to them, but we're interconnected. So if I want to go to Sword today um on my phone, I can literally be in the Sword system without any second sign on or anything like that. And it's a two-way exchange. So, I'm sending them information, they're sending information back. So, you always have you're in control of your information. Really really important. So, three related things. Let me start with the the the first one. Um, you're

you're been in acquisition mode for a while. You have a some guy you know called Hamilton who apparently has a bankroll and who knows, a general catalyst. Um, you mentioned a bunch of partners, but there are things that probably you probably want to have on board and probably things you want to partner with. Um, who knows? You know, Hinges may or may not. We'll talk about the wacky state of the American economy in a minute, but Hinge is planning its IPO and you know, obviously those those

companies have been growing fast, but there are a number of alternatives. So, you mentioned mental health, you mentioned msk, obviously there are a number of other areas across the board where where where there are partners. What do you think stays as a partner where you interact with and what do you think which areas do you think uh eventually the new transparent will actually you know take on board like it's done for example uh you know primary care yeah I think you have core services and

a core platform and and then you have different experiences whether you know different kinds of care experiences and I think we're less likely to be active in that area, we are very happy having an experience store and there are great providers out there. So, some people love Hinge. Um, and my good friend Jim Pley, who was uh president of Hinge, uh, who I actually bumped so you and I could do this interview because we had a call scheduled today. So, um, didn't you get him sued the last time you

were hope that lawsuit got dropped? That was something going on when he company together somewhere related to me and um and you know our close partners at sword both provide great great experiences both of them work um and we want to have close relationships with both of them. So you know and clients I want to give clients more choice. So even in cases where we have a competitive service um for example in the surgery area you know we have a competitive service and yet Kum does a great job. I'm not going to

second guess Kum. They do a great job and people should get to choose what they want to choose. We are not going to give preference to one or the other. We're going to work with both you know together and you know that's just how we're going to do it. So not unlike um you know again if you go on an iPhone and you know you have the app store um that's the way we look at the future from an infrastructure standpoint when we talk about messaging scheduling things like that those have a lot more

interest to us whether it's build or buy but the ability to be very tightly connected to make sure that the experience for people for all of us is seamless you You know, and if you think again, great example is a bank. I lived through all the stages. Stand in line at a teller, then go to an ATM, but not sure if your card would work. Um, but then the card worked and then it worked everywhere. And then just when you thought you were done, now it's available on your phone, including how do you deposit a check? Wow, you can

deposit a check. And so so again that movement of technology which we all appreciate uh but it has to be done right. So we want to save the people to do the most important thing and that's to talk to somebody listen to somebody when they need it. And our people will be better equipped to do that including our physicians and our care advocates than anyone else in the industry because we'll have better information and we're investing in that. Uh so relative to you mentioned General Catalyst. Look, I think General Catalyst

is the smartest venture firm in the industry today and I think they're making strategic investments and valuebased investments um that really want to I think you know Haymon's vision is to restructure this industry to work like it should. Lower cost, better access, higher quality. We've done it in every other industry. There's only two left. Healthcare and education. And those are the only two industries where we said this is too important for business and this is too important for technology. And look where

we are. What we have to do is get refocused on saying we can use intelligent technology paired with the best physicians, nurses, facilities in the world to deliver worldclass care and do it at half the cost. And that's a vision that I share with Haymont and a lot of other people. And by the way, I you know, people have said, "Well, you're a disruptor." The reality is we'll work with anybody. We're working with major payers leaders like Blue Shield and others and Promera. Um we're

couldn't be more excited to work with the leaders who say experience matters. Let's let's get the best combination of services out there. Happy to work with them. Happy to work with competitors. You know, you've heard me talk about friends and enemies and frenemies. Sometimes they're all three. We'll compete in one area. We'll collaborate in another. But who's first? The consumer. The health consumer always. So on that note, you mentioned the payers. I was going to talk you you said

one or two things about some payers that you know may not always have been there to their liking. But I mean when you're now an employer, a large one of your large employer clients, right? You probably have a ASO. It may be United or whomever one of the Bookers and they are providing a lot of things that look kind of like some of the things you're providing. um they don't seem to be focused on on sort of advocacy and navigation so much but nonetheless they're there. How are both employers

making the choice between what they get from them or what they get from a transparent and then how are you advertising marketing getting engagement from those consumers those employees as consumers? Sure. Uh well well again employers will always make the best choice for them and they're going to consider three things. What's the experience our people are having? Do they love what they're getting today? I think we know the answer to that. Do they love what they got in the last 5 years? Is it getting better or worse?

Most people would say the experience is actually getting worse, not better. And so number one, what's the experience? Number two, what's the quality of care our people are getting? And number three, what does it cost? And heading into a recession, I think everybody's looking at the cost. No one wants to give up quality or experience. And so employers are going to make those decisions. Now, I will say that many employers have said there's just too many point solutions. We love these

point solutions, but there's too many of them, and it's adding to the confusion and the complexity and the cost. And so part of what we bring at Transparent is the ability to say, "No, there's one place to go for all your health and care. It's right here. It's on your phone. It's easy." And by the way, logging on is looking at your phone and talking to your phone. That's it. There's no It's the easiest thing in the world. And you can ask any question from

send me my insurance card to find me an endocrinologist in San Jose who speaks Spanish to I want to talk to a doctor right now. Text with them. I want to schedule an appointment for next week. I mean it's it's uncanny what you can do today. You know this is not the future. The future is now. The future is today. And when you look at you know some of the companies using it like an All State like an Apple top companies in the world um they are giving that experience to their employees and I think that's where

everyone's going to go. So we're happy to work with and we are working with partnering with everyone um to do that. So that's I think what we bring uniquely and but at the end of the day you know individual health consumers should be given choice and employers ought to be given choice about what they get. So two two followups on that. One is how are you actually marketing this to the employees and other other consumers? How you know how how are people finding out about it? What are the uptake levels you're getting from

these leading customers? And then uh well that's answer that one first. Yeah. Um and and we have a we have a memory solution as well. If you couldn't remember that second one, we'll work with you on that. I I can remember it. Let's see if I can remember it after your answer. What I one of my recent interviews was like a memory test, you know, which luckily I didn't take man, woman, camera, TV. In terms of uh in terms of your question, each company is different. Some buy our entire platform. Um some

buy certain of the care experiences. And the same is true for the legacy accolade clients, some bought second MD from them, some buy the entire uh experience from them. So, um, so each one is a little different because if you're getting our full platform that includes pharmacy, you're already getting all your prescriptions and interacting with this device every few days because of your prescriptions. So there, our ability to get people to utilize the broad range of experiences we provide is much higher. Um, in cases

where um in cases where somebody might only have one experience, we might ride off of their own communications that they make with employees. They may say, "We have a brand new program um that makes it easier for you to get high quality surgeries and they may advertise that." We also and this is one of the things that uh accolade had that was very unique the ability to do intelligent targeting to say here's someone based on their medication who should know about these particular services for example

and you can expose those folks to what's available to them that's what we do as well terms of utilization again to be honest it's all over the board when we were at Levango So it was very easy to say 37% all the way up to 50% because it was very targeted. It was one thing. here, you know, I can say we have 100% utilization at certain clients um who actually use us for a pharmacy because by definition, if that's the only way they can do it coming through us, um you know, we can do that. But it really is

all over the board from, you know, uh less frequent utilization to much much more um you know, broad utilization. I mean if you think about um activation that's typically very rapidly we get a third of the population 35%. But utilization varies by you know what uh what it is. I will say that the retention rate when people utilize us is very high because they like access to the service and uh but it really depends on what the service is because you know certain services you don't want people

to use all the time. If you're calling, you know, if you're calling uh for surgery, you don't want people to use it twice a year or three times a year. You hope they only use it once and you hope it's a small percentage. So, I'd love to give you one number. Sometimes you hear people saying that I if you think about it, it's impossible to do that unless you isolate. Although it is possible on point solutions. Do do you have a do you have a growth amount once you get into a client for a

certain amount of time? Do you see a regular uptick? You put a number behind that for different types of Yeah, that's for sure. And the thing we do there is word of mouth works very well. There's also some of our clients have financial incentives. So for example, if you go through our process for surgery, you get a second opinion, you go to one of our preferred providers, then your surgery may well be absolutely free at some of our clients. Free, not, you know, not pay, you know, not share. And that can

be thousands of dollars. And if you think about the economy we're heading into, you know, that's pretty massive. Um, but they want employers want to know, did you get a second opinion? You know, have you been smart about the way you've done this? Is the surgery going to be done at a high quality place? If so, we'll pay for it because they know we've pre-negotiated it. We've done it right. And they're very careful. And they also know that we don't have a model that pushes people to get surgery.

So, that's really important as well. Yeah. And obviously there is I mean there there are some people talking about and I don't know anyone's doing it at scale actually you know giving people some of the savings back that they make you know when you because of the variation still in surgery cost and cancer care and you know still so you know so yeah I will say that that all state um when they adopted our system um they actually expanded the benefits to their people based on the fact that they

believe they were going to ize economies and that is my definition of a great employer which is hey we're going to actually do better you're going to get better information make better decisions we'll share that benefit with you so that you know that's that's the kind of win I think we can create in healthcare so the obvious uh other the obvious other other question is where next there are a ton of employers and and and large employees who don't have uh transparent there obviously a lot of small employers

whom we haven't got to yet. And the other place of course is Medicare which has now just started paying actually in fever service for uh for advocacy or what and at least one company I know so I think it is just raising funding to basically start there rather than start where you are. um what what's your plan around both Medicare Advantage and standard Medicare um given that those are the most complex and the highest spending patients and also frankly some who have the worst customer experience.

Yeah, I think at this point we're going to stay largely focused um on the large, mid, and small employer markets. I think that's where we we know what we do. We know they have an enormous need. But I think separately, you know, what I would say is that, you know, we also want to see what's going to happen with Medicare, Medicaid. you know, our plush care model um is available um in Medicare um you know, so that does give um um you know, that does give the ability for some people in Medicare to take advantage of this, but

by and large, we're going to stay focused there. And you raise an interesting kind of you you know an interesting point and that is you know often people ask me about our competitors and the real competitor here is the status quo. The real competitor here is people who are not taking advantage of their benefits because they don't even know how to find them. That's what we want to go after. um you know as opposed to trying to focus on somebody else who might be in the market including people you may have

interviewed recently um who are who are by the way who are friends um who are great and doing great work and that's the reality is that's what I think uh we would all agree on that the real market is the number of companies and the people who don't have access to care and at some point I would love to go after Medicare care and Medicaid um for the reasons you mentioned that is we think we can add real value but I think that's going to be a while. Yeah. I mean I think it's worth noting that we obviously it's very

unclear what's coming out in Medicare, Medicaid, Medicare Advantage and out of CMS generally, let alone what's coming out of the government generally at the moment. Um but Oz is now on do you know Oz is is on record as saying that uh everyone should have an AI doctor and you've kind of got one. So I I don't know. I just I'll dangle that out there. But uh what I would say is that I suspect that you know what you're finding is is once you get people into the system of understanding they've got

the kind of uh AI, not just using chat GPT occasionally, but a focused AI um uh assistant to help them get to the right place in care and also get answers. As people do more and more of that, people get more and more comfortable with it. um you just got to expect that this is going to become uh more of a standard of care. There was some interesting data out of Rock Health recently about the increase in uh in the use of at this stage virtual care and digital health you know at more and more not just in

younger age groups. In fact, James Saran has a piece just recently about this. So, you know, my my feeling is that you've yes, you've got to stay straight to what you're doing and you've got to grow obviously in your same store growth and in your other employers, but I I know you there's there's some uh there's some opportunities coming. Yeah. The beauty is that healthcare is not a political issue. It really isn't. Um and we're going to keep developing the capabilities and remember that, you

know, care is relative. So if you have no one to talk to because you can't afford it, then an AI doc is wonderful. And right now the largest number of transactions um are related to healthcare are through something called Dr. Google. And that's a billion times a day. The challenge with that is that one, Google doesn't want to be they say they don't want to be in the healthcare business. Two, we don't know what that advice is. And so, you know, we all would would be wise to be careful about that. So, to the extent

we can get better, of course, that's where we're going to go. And it's no different than anything else in your life. And we just have to manage that very carefully. We have to make sure we protect that very carefully in terms of how we do that. And even in AI, you know, we have some some folks out there saying we're going to build an AI model, but you know, the amount of money, more than hund00 million, we invested gave us walled gardens and privacy cues and ambient listening. So if someone talks

about suicide, it kicks them out to a person. and all of that safety and security and privacy, you know, to build that in healthcare is actually really difficult. And so that's what you're getting. This isn't about can you just go to chat GPT. Um, you can do that. It's just you have no idea what you're going to get and you could get a hallucination that's downright dangerous. So um, so I think it's a very different kind of approach. What do what do you think about the idea and this is

something that I've been struggling with and you know if you just go back to general catalyst for that matter seven wire which uh you didn't say was the best VC firm out there I don't don't know if you have any colleagues there who may or may not agree but but uh you know it's getting clearly the big models like open AI claude all the anthropical rest are getting much smart even grock are getting much smarter um and you're starting to see people use them and yes may be hallucination they don't have the

dedication to healthcare as yet. Do you think how do you think the relationship between dedicated healthcare AI plays such as what transparent is doing and these bigger models how do you think that plays out because in the end we can't all be subscribing to everything even though seems to be built into open AI's numbers but yeah I think um you know what I'd say is two things first of all seven wire is very collaborative with GC sevenware I know I'm sure you were really berating them

No, seven wire is focused on early stage and and does a terrific job there. And you know, we love VC, we love General Catalyst because typically when our companies are successful, their future rounds come from General Catalyst and other great uh VCs. Having said that, um we use remember in our system our basic LLM engines are from a variety of the large players, some of whom you mentioned. Um, we don't want to rebuild the engine. Everything above the engine is what we built. So, if you think of a

car, you know, most people today wouldn't even know what that engine is inside of their car, but everything else, the safety systems, the cup holders, everything that makes the car a great experience is what they're paying for. And that's the way we think of how we're building. You know, what I would say is the, you know, don't also underestimate. You get the information but you also need the experience which is how does it get managed how does it get integrated what's best for you you

know that kind of personalization um you know any kind of chat GPT can't tell you if I go to chat GPT and say how much will this surgery cost me there's no way they'll know because they haven't built um integration with the accumulator model from my insurance company which might change and I don't expect that's going to happen anytime soon. So we're talking about your entire experience of health and care. Some of that is hands-on. If I talk about our cancer program there at a lot of expense

we're assigning a lioncertified oncology nurse to stay with you from the moment of diagnosis all the way through to survivorship. Okay? That's called human care. Nobody's replacing that. We're doing it. We're the only ones who have that model and people love it. Employers love it. Could they save more money not doing it? Yeah, they could. But they actually do care. They just want to understand that there's value when they're spending money and that's what we're delivering. So yes, the models are

going to get better. We're going to be the primary beneficiaries of that. And you know, that's what we're going to do. And if you look at our doctors now, step one is removing all the administrative billing, payment, selecting your pharmacy, wasted time that they have to allow them to spend their time efficiently on what they were trained to do. And that is diagnosis, spending time with you. Um, and that's that's, you know, one of the places we'll see this play out. Yeah. Yeah. And I think you've

been saying for a while and you're not the the only one that that if if we get the AI right that'll actually free up more of the humanity of the doctors and you know the sort of 100% touching of the hands on the patient and the the communication which is which is which has got lost as we've known the last couple of decades. Yeah. I mean, look, if you know, doctors are still to this day struggling with Epic and they spend more time in front of that screen than they do looking at the patient. And um

we've got to flip that around. Really good technology disappears into the background. Now, we're seeing some of that with ambient listening. The doctors love it, the patients love it, they both get a record of what happened. I mean, most people, if you went out and surveyed them, most doctors would say ambient listening is the best thing to ever happen in healthcare. Um, which is both sad, but it's wonderful that that that that's happening. Um, because it frees them up and it creates that record

for them and now they have a brief review to make sure it's accurate. Um, much much better. So, it's a that's a great step forward using technology. All right. Uh, last thing. We've talked a lot about TransCan. We haven't talked about the wider world much. Uh, you have some involvement in that, I understand, beyond your CEO job. What are we what what what do you think is coming along in healthcare or is going to impact healthcare that we haven't talked about that might surprise uh people in the

next next couple of years? Obviously the the jolt from CH EBT a couple of years ago is now really as you said with ambient listing and summarization and and and stuff like wave funing is really starting to hit home. What what do we what do you think is coming in the next you know two to three to five years that uh that you think we should have paid attention to that? Well, you know there's that quote that says the future is here. It's just not evenly distributed from the future. Yep. Exactly. And so um one I think

wayfinding is the Google or the Amazon of healthcare and I think you know we will see this accelerate very rapidly where people are used to being able to just take their phone and ask any question ask for scheduling their appointment and do everything that they and healthc care will become easy and I really believe that's going to happen and I think it's going to take off as fast as Google or Amazon have and it will be not just the benefits navigation what's covered what does it cost and not

just the clinical guidance what should I do but actually the service delivery as well can I get it scheduled today or can you help me write while I'm on the phone or can we do and we do it today using your computer or using your phone um actual do digital exams and orthopedic exams with some of our partners ers and the like. So I think that's going to become the standard of care very quickly. That's one. In the pharmace pharmarmacological areas, I think we're going to see more and more cures coming

out. And you know, GLP1s, you know, while there's lots of controversy, they are transformational in a variety of ways if they're used and managed properly. And um but remember we're going from a you know a syringe to a pill and that's going to dramatically change the profile there. Um so I think we're going to see actual cures start to happen much more quickly. How we pay for them is going to be the challenge. Um and last but not least, we have to get back to respecting science and data. And

you know that's not happening right now. Um, we have to get back there because public health is going to need to be rebuilt um to take care of populations to prevent um you know the spread of communicable diseases and um you know pandemics and the like and we have to have that muscle ready to go. So I think all of that's going to happen. But net net I think it is going to be an exciting time because we are going to use technology in the right ways to change the healthcare equation. It's

pretty incredible that we are uh having a talk in 2025 about respecting science and using it and thinking about public health given what we went through in 2020 and 21 and 22. But uh that is the place that we live in. as you said, it's uh there's a lot going on in that world which is pretty shocking all around and you know fingers crossed we'll come out the other side. All right, great stuff. I've been talking about Glenn Tilman, CEO of Transparent. Glenn, thanks for your time. Great to catch up with you.

Great to catch up what you're doing and uh very exciting to see the uh the result of the the merger with a so well done. Well, thanks very much. Always great to talk to you.