Title: Gozio
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rEC3fMAVqNg
Language: en
Duration: 00:44:43
Upload Date: Sep 15, 2026

Transcription:

[music]  Hi, it's Matthew Halt back in with a  THCB spotlight and this time with me we  are looking at a company called Goio and  I have with me Katie Logan who is the  chief strategy and head of product chief  strate and head of product and Christine  Smith who is the VP of strategic  solutions and partnerships I believe.

Have I got everyone's titles right  there? Um  officially correct.  Fantastic. [laughter] It's very very  rare to get anything correct these days.  Um, fantastic. So, le let's start. So,  so Gooio is in the business of helping  hospital systems help their patients and  clients navigate in various flavors and  various ways.

Um, did I get that right,  Katie?  That is that is that is right. That's  really good. We exist to make the  patient experience better through  navigation. We want to make the journey  more seamless, hassle-free, but also  help an organizations realize their  objectives around growth, quality, and  overall of course the customer and  patient experience.

All right, so navigation uh and digital  front doors etc have a couple of  different flavors, right? So one of them  obviously is uh what how are people  finding the hospital? How are people if  they are, you know, being sent, how are  patients, if they're being sent there,  figuring out, you know, if they're  accessing information about the hospital  and the digital front door and what  treatments they're going to have and the  doctors and all that kind of good stuff.

And then the other one is actual  navigation, like I'm in the hospital  while I'm lost and I'm trying to find  the X-ray facility or whatever. What do  I do about that? And you're you do both  of those, right?  We do. We do both. You know, our  position is nobody uh visits a doctor or  a hospital because they feel good.

So  fundamentally we want to make it easier  for them to navigate and meet people  where they are which is on their phones.  So it really starts with the highest  level our mobile platform which can be  branded and configured to the unique  needs of the health system and the  market. Uh it then integrates a myriad  of the digital solutions and touch  points that you started to allude to  that they've deployed through a single  pain.

So patients or visitors or  community members are then empowered to  spend less time searching and working  around the inefficiencies of the place  and more time getting back to to feeling  well. So our platform really allows a  brand to build that mobile channel of  engagement to enhance the experience.  And then beyond the digital navigation,  as you noted, we offer solutions that  make that physical journey easier with  wayfinding, enabled by real-time  location awareness, blue dot turnbyturn  directions that allows us to get people  from home to parking to their point of  care with ease. And the best part about  that is it can really then be deployed  in the health systems preferred way. So  they can build an app with us. Many  already have their own custom apps and  we can tuck wayfinding into their own  build and then newly released we're very  excited about an option now to embed  that wayfinding component into the  patient portal. Um so we're really

passionate about it because we want to  help our customers move from being just  app owners to truly experience owners  and when you bring mobile and wayfinding  together it really allows them to move  the needle.  So there's a lot of different activity  going on around sort of patient touch  points and patient front door right so  and there's a lot of different things  that many systems are bringing into this  so I'm thinking about you know tele  medicine appointment 

scheduling content  information that kind of stuff and  there's also a lot of different people  doing it from different perspectives so  you'll often find people are are either  getting some of this from their health  plan I mean sometimes but also but you  can actually I know that for  Pick me as a random example which I  always tend to do. I'm a one medical  member and they've got some front door  stuff. They've got some tele medicine  stuff. I use my local health system  which also is connected to UCSF the big  academic medical center in San Francisco  and they've got a my chart thing which  can offer me certain appointments and  other stuff. There's a lot lot of phone

calls still going on there but they do  offer stuff. Um and then of you know and  then of course I've got my health plan  which actually put a shield at the  moment and I think they've got a tele  medicine option somewhere in the middle  of all that you know so they've got a  bunch of sort of health stuff. How do  you think think I mean so so place goio  in kind of who are you helping in that  whole ecosystem um and how do you place  yourselves against all the other kinds  of or place yourselves related to 

all  the other kinds of things they may have  got on in terms of point solutions  regarding I don't know tele medicine or  content or information or marketing or  whatever else they're currently doing  just give me the landscape a bit  yeah I love this I you know when I think  about that and just zoom out from an  industry perspective for just a minute  because I've I've been in it, you know,  almost 20 years now and reflect on the  evolution of point solutions and digital  inside of healthcare, right? It's a  little bit of a culture problem. I was  talking to someone with him at last uh

last month and he was a physician leader  just talking about how the whole system  is really fundamentally designed around  the physician first, right? and then  around some of these broken operational  processes. Then over the last 15, 20  years, we've like digitized that chaos,  but none of these point solutions really  talk to each other.

So you end up with a  bunch of digital deadends or sending  people like you down a bunch of  different rabbit trails to to find your  your ultimate answer and and point of  care. And we're just exhausting people  with all these point solutions. And it's  not about too many tools because they  all do great things, but it's that  friction of the fragmentation.

And I  like to think that Goio is an aggregator  of those things because we can  integrate, because we can stitch it all  together. We can create that more  uniform, seamless experience, but still  still allows the operation to take  advantage of the tools that serve that  clinical need or that particular outcome  or that particular scheduling workflow.

But our platform allows them to bring it  all together into truly one at least  launchpoint unified experience that  helps folks like you and me and my  husband and kids and everybody else u  navigate those complexities.  So I have to push you a little bit on  that. So um all of your clients health  systems hospitals  yeah we're in about uh just under 35  health systems across the country. Okay.

Academic children's adult combination.  Okay. And then in terms in terms of that  sort of the the digital front door place  if you are if go you know someone  becomes a goio client a health system  goio client um is do you essentially  white label and take over their their  sort of their first what I guess what  what parts do you take over and white  label is that like their whole website  just their mobile app some combination  of the above what do you where are you  guys  yeah I like to think about bit more is  offering them the white label native  mobile experience and channel first and  foremost. We don't want to just be a  bunch of links to a website or replace a  website. You can do that with mobile  web, right? The richness that comes and  the hassle-free  um opportunity comes when we can make  those experiences native. that find a  provider search, that appointment  scheduling, that access to content, or

even the one click to get to the phone  call because operationally they still  require the phone call, right? Versus  the hunting and pecking to finding that  phone number. So, we think about that as  is truly the mobile experience and  owning that channel and helping health  systems own that channel um in the palm  of their their community's hands.

Okay. And then what are the and we'll  we'll we'll we'll see this in a second,  but what what are the most used parts  when so when someone becomes a client  and they're sort of outsourcing to you  the uh the that sort of navigation  experience? What are the most used  parts?  Yeah.

So, you know, of course, it's a a  good oldfashioned it depends answer, you  [laughter] know, health system  priorities, what they want to build, how  they configure it, and what they kind of  uh put at the forefront of that mobile  experience. But I think what in some of  what we'll show you in the demo, it's  all about driving access as a priority,  getting people in the door, getting them  seen.

So provider search and scheduling  and some of those pieces coming together  is a top use. Uh the ability for health  systems to communicate and connect with  their patients via push notifications  and content and engaging them in  personalized journeys is another top uh  area where we see people engage on  mobile. And then with wayfinding to be  able to search all of the assets on a  campus, right? Not just get me to my  appointment, but I'm sitting here in a  waiting room. I'm looking for coffee.

I  need lunch. I need to send this location  to my family member to come visit our  our kid in the hospital. We have lots of  ways for them to push that out, draw  people in and and get to the the  location on campus. Um, so that search  and get me to the right place for my  needs on the campus are sort of top  within the wayfinding.

Christine, keep  me honest there. You've been with the  the organization a long time now and  you've you've worked a lot of years with  our customers. What else would you add  there?  Yeah, I think it's a good overview. Uh,  one thing that we continue to see energy  and excitement around as well um is AI  too, right? to the embedding of virtual  agents and kind of chat like  capabilities inside of mobile 2 to help  facilitate that digital 

navigation as  Katie mentioned  and Christine when you talk to your  clients and your potential clients I  mean there is and I'm going to I don't  want to offer too big of a do want to  show just to show the demo see what the  actual experience is like but there's  now any number of people claiming that  we are building AI solutions and  deploying forward engineers and whatever  into health systems I'm in trouble  trouble with I would someone just raised  some money yesterday and I'm in trouble  by saying I don't get how you guys are  different from the 17 other people who  did who are also doing the same thing  because it's kind of not I have a one  thing that does a solution solves this

problem but now it's I can come and  solve multiple problems using my AI  agent so when you have that conversation  say we have a thing that does this um  you know and we're bringing AI into  [clears throat] helping with that um how  is that conversation going people now  saying oh no no no chachi Pety could do  all of this for me instead  How how do you how are you hearing about  that? [snorts and gasps]  Yeah, I I think you know we're getting  we're in a transformational era, but it  is easy to get lost in the sauce of AI  is going to 

fix and change and transform  everything. Uh what we've seen is we  really need to understand like what  problems are we solving and is AI  driving efficiency? Are we actually  making something easier or better or is  it just cool tech, right? And in some  cases it's somewhere in between and in  some cases it's one of those extremes.  So I think healthcare continues to  dabble in in specific use cases and as  those use cases show value, I think they  will just continue to adopt different AI  tools. Uh from a goial health  perspective, we believe AI is table

stakes to just be efficient and and make  progress quickly. Uh but that doesn't  mean you should throw AI on everything  and expect to be a silver bullet. So we  have a very pragmatic approach, but uh I  think the conversations have definitely  varied. Katie, please.  Yeah. No, sorry, Katie.  Okay. Thanks.

I think it's great and I  think to Christine's point table stakes  both from a internal perspective and a  development process right we've been  spending a fair bit of time as are most  thinking about how that fits in  your engineers are all token maxing are  they [laughter]  it's a new WORD I HEARD LIKE THIS  RIGHT all the token counting um that's  absolutely right  how much money can we spend in anthropic  yeah [laughter]  [clears throat]  yes anyhow how's it  at some point you'll

see a photo will  try and say how what are we getting for  all  That's right. The the return will have  to be proved just like any digital  solution, right? But then from a product  perspective, what is table stakes and  expectation now as as end users in our  day-to-day lives on how you want to  interact with the tool, be able to ask  questions, and that's where I think  you'll see us continue to head um here  in the near term. and to be able to  apply that into a native mobile  experience and wayfinding

um less clicking, more conversational. I  think that's just around the corner and  will be some exciting evolution for us.  Right. Well, let's let's look at what  you've got so far. So, Christine, I  think the first thing you're going to  show us is that kind of general um  consumer consumer patient front door.  So, why don't you bring that up and  we'll take a look.

Absolutely.  And as Katie mentioned, uh really we  believe in supporting their our  healthcare clients to deploy whichever  way makes sense for them as an  organization.  And this this and this isn't a fake one.  This is a one I've heard of. [laughter]  This is what you've heard of. That's  right. This is real tech.

This is not  vaporware.  I'm thinking about the uh most a lot of  people put like random health system at  top. And uh Rush Rush has a name. So I  assume they're a customer.  Real client, real real tech, real  solution. Yes, we we thought it was  important to show that, right? And how  people are  Well, look, sometimes some sometimes the  customer doesn't want doesn't want to  people to see this, but you know, they  obviously aren't the customer coming  here in Chicago.

Yes, I know you've got  it on a slide here which has Goio next  to it, but they they don't know who the  hell you are and it doesn't really  matter, right?  Yeah.  Sorry, we interrupted. You just got to  tell us.  Go ahead.  I was going to say something good, but  it's going to come back. Uh we'll walk  through a couple things here, but I'll  I'll start with just by orienting around  your question earlier, Matthew.

Really  the goal is to to your question, right?  Bring all those digital solutions  together in one pane of glass into one  seamless experience. So I'd like to show  you a couple different things here.  You're probably already sensing like,  yep, I see a patient portal. I see  online scheduling. I see get care today,  right? Access to low acuity care  options. I see ask Isabella.

There's  that virtual chat agent that's becoming  table stakes. I see finding a provider  recommended for you. These are the types  of digital solutions health systems have  deployed as point solutions. And so  sometimes adoption um can be minimal  because users have to go search for  these things and then engage with them.

When they all live in one mobile  application that's in the palm of my  hand, in my pocket, it's much easier for  me to access these things and drive kind  of the value of all of these solutions  when they're in one place. Um  so of course that varies by health  system. they can deploy whatever makes  sense for them.

But these are some of  the themes that we've seen these kind of  core modules or features that tend to  resonate most in the market.  I'll stop here. So as we think about  kind of the physical space, right? What  about accessing everything inside of an  enterprise? Uh there are hospitals,  sure, but as you see here, there's  alsoarmacies and primary cares and  urgent cares and walk-in clinics and

standalone buildings that are a part of  a health system where you want to drive  your patients and users to access those  facilities. And so we've built a native  experience around searching for those  facilities, saving them, sharing them,  engaging with them. Maybe that's a call  today operationally, maybe it's a direct  scheduling link, which is great. So  embedding that online scheduling  capability. uh we build a native UI that  again is focused on kind of mobile  experience and the mobile um benefits  that we have of being on a device to  make that as easy and seamless as  possible for patients, visitors, staff  members, community members, even  prospective patients that don't yet uh

have an experience with the health  system.  I'm going to keep going and let it click  through a little bit. Here you can see  an example of some of the types of  places. We'll go to another section.  We'll pick on provider search because  online search and scheduling is always  the top priority driving more patients  uh in the facility actually getting  care.

Again, our priority here is around  native experiences. How can we make this  as easy as possible but leverage the  investment the health system has already  made to manage their provider database,  manage online scheduling tools, manage  information about those physicians.  Let's take a look at some of the things  we can search by specialty, maybe by  symptom, maybe by location, maybe by  physician name specifically because I I  know a physician.

I've already been  referred. Um, and then I've got some  cool access to that physician. Again,  leveraging a location aware platform. I  can navigate straight there and call  book, right? You can kind of see the  theme here of making access to all of  those calls to action as easy as  possible on a native platform.  I can also tell how far Atlanta is from  Chicago.

[laughter]  get the mileage. That's great.  Probably not going to go 500 miles to  find an allergist, but I I get you guys  are not in in Chicago where Russ is.  That's great. That's great. I'll keep  going here. Uh, another key access point  of course is the patient portal where I  want to be able to quickly access any of  the clinical data as a patient.

Um, and  what this what's interesting about this  is everything that I showed to date,  right, or to mo to that moment is really  for anybody, right? I've not  authenticated as an individual. Those  things should be accessible to everybody  in a health care systems community.  Again, patients, prospective patients,  community members.

Um, but once I  authenticate, which is something that's  very cool and unique with the mobile  platform that enables us to use that  information about your demographic and  other um kind of clinical details to  tailor the experience even further. So,  now we can pull things forward like what  upcoming appointments do you have? Let's  drive some call to action around that.

I  of course don't have any upcoming  appointments, but imagine I did. Maybe I  need to call. Maybe I need to reschedu.  Maybe I need to just get prepared for  that and there are some things I need to  do. Let me get a quick look at the  instructions tied to those appointments.  Let me quickly access anything inside my  patient portal like my test results or  messages.

And then as things get even  cooler, let me further personalize this  experience. So, uh, Rush has also  deployed a concierge program. And so  they're able to tweak that home screen  and that mobile experience to highlight  some of the unique solutions that are  available to their concierge members. Uh  which is awesome. And then as as my  little user scrolls here, you'll also  notice my patient education has  completely changed.

I have now  transformed into a middle-aged man,  which is great. Um but that's because  once I've authenticated, the mobile  platform's got some information about  the user that can make that information  pertinent to to them, right? Uh men's  health. I don't just want generic health  tips. I want I want tips that are  appropriate to me.

So, it's a really  awesome thing that becomes available.  That's great. So, in this view, um now  you've lo now you've logged in. Um I  think you presumably had a it looked  like you had a uh a biometrical  authentication there. Um maybe you  didn't, but or or you could obviously  log in with your username and password.  Now, now you're now you're in.

So, you  you you're on the My Rush site, um the  mobile site. You then log you then log  into my chart. The things that you're  servicing like the appointment times or  whatever. What's the interplay between  go and and my chart or whichever the the  the the practice management system or or  scheduling system is in the back end.

Are you are you having to hook into that  um for that or is is that a is that a  sort of single once once you do  something in your layer the go layer  does that automatically appear in the in  the back end? We have seamless  integrations with direct booking  solutions. Uh could be the patient  portal directly, could be a third party.

There are a number out there that kind  of facilitate that booking experience.  And so we pass the tokens on and the  demographics and integrate with those  solutions directly so that the user just  feels like they're in one app the whole  time filling out their information and  their appointment [clears throat]  results in a in a in a patient portal.

And and do you do you find that this  actually changes uh that most people are  now using this rather than going to like  I don't know if there is a you know rush  epicmychart  whatever you know login that I I I  should look up my UCSF which doesn't  have a thing like this. So I'm just  going straight into my chart.

Obviously  it has some of these features but it  doesn't have the the look and feel and  the and the front end. It doesn't have  the you know doesn't have a bunch of  these features as well of course that  you've you've added. Are you finding  that people are using  are you seeing a big shift in usage away  from people going to my chart to this or  or was just no one using my chart in the  first place? I don't know.

Oh no, lots of people are using my chart  and [laughter]  I would say it's not a shift but a  compliment and in many clients we see an  increase in uptake in their portal  utilization because now they got a  different entry point and it's it's all  contained in one spot that gets them  where they want to be.

But I mean  essentially you can't you're using the  My Chart back end I guess with this  front end. I mean people are you finding  in terms of user experience there are  more people using this um or are they  now going oh well and I've got this I  have to go into my chart to find some  other specific thing that is not  available in this or how is that  working? Yeah, in this case it's  leveraging the data from the EHR to

personalize the experience and a few  workflows that are are easy easy buttons  into what you could get in the portal.  But you notice they can still launch  straight into the portal if they need to  go deeper into some of those workflows.  And we're very mindful of not we're not  here to recreate the portal. It's very  complimentary and in some cases that  should absolutely be contained and  managed and executed in the portal. But  where the but it depends is how far a  rush versus another client wants to  adopt those workflows and bring them  into that native experience.  And and uh I think we should let  Christine finish the last little bit of

a demo, but I wanted to stop at that  point and chat a little bit about what  else is going to come here. But  great, show us what what else you were  going to show.  Yeah. No, we're close to being there,  which is great. Um it's it's a quick  depiction, but I'll just highlight, you  know, Katie's comment as well.

um  patient portal solves for tons of of  clinical data needs for users every day.  Uh but a lot of times health systems are  looking beyond the patient now as well.  They're looking at direct to employer  experiences, staff experiences, um  student experiences, especially in  academic medical centers. And so to  really be able to personalize a mobile  experience that includes all that  clinical data and the other personalized  things that they want to make available

to their their patient um sometimes a  bit more is needed beyond the patient  and portal to make that a truly seamless  experience that all lives inside of one  mobile platform. And so that's kind of  the continuum of where we see health  systems making that decision around what  to use as their mobile experience  platform is what are all the the goals  that they're trying to accomplish and  and who's the catchment area, right?  what is the experience that we need to  deliver and based on those answers that  helps us understand what the best um  approach is.  Yeah. And and I and I assume Katie that  there is I mean what in terms of stuff  that has either been brought in I don't

know how much this is coming in via the  Goio's world and how much you're being  asked for but I assume there's a bunch  of things around um you know tele  medicine remote you know remote  deployment Q&A who know actual  connection with either  [clears throat]  you know, a human clinician or maybe an  AI clinician.

I've got the the chat  there. What what what are you kind of  finding people are bringing into this  and are asking you for is there tele  medicine currently built into this for  some systems?  We're not a we're not a tele medicine  platform, but because we can, you know,  it has an API we can integrate and help  make it a native experience.

I was just  with a client yesterday  um in some conversations. their priority  is their children's hospital and system  trying to get more teleaalth visits out  into the community and making it more  known and wrestling with how do we  create the channel well with their  population everyone's got the phone may  not have the other devices so that was  one of the priorities we're starting to  work through can bring it in make it n  quick on your way so tellaalth um the  virtual care of course most much much of  what you're seeing here from Christine  but we we're really mindful of not  recreating these other solutions. It's  how we can uh simplify and stitch it  together.  But your goal of FOIO is to be  essentially the front door to all of  that stuff and more as it comes.  Yeah, absolutely. Because we want to  help them really improve that experience  and we believe this is a fundamental way  to to do that.  All right. Fantastic. All right,

Christine, let's go uh let's go. Let's  go somewhere. [laughter]  Let's go. Now I have to go to a  hospital. What happens next?  That's a perfect segue. I was like,  let's travel through time and space uh  and actually travel somewhere. So, we'll  show you a demo of uh our wayfinding  experience.

And so, this again, as to  Katie's point, can be deployed in any  way a health system wants to  operationalize, can be deployed in a go  powered application like you saw with  Rush, can be deployed directly in their  patient portal, which we're excited to  announce, and also can be deployed in a  in an application that they built  themselves

Maybe they built something  inhouse very unique to their uh  community. We can also partner with them  to deploy our solution there. What I'll  show you first is what that wayfinding  experience looks like in a goio powered  application. And we'll actually start at  a really important point which is that  that experience really starts at home.

It doesn't start when I get to the  health system and now I'm running late  but I'm going to open my phone and start  navigating. uh that's unlikely, but it  really starts when I'm sitting on my  couch and my phone, which is notifying  us all day long, reminds me I've got  somewhere to be, right? So, that's a  great plug uh to start that navigation  experience.

And there are many  appointment reminder type solutions out  there that are driving those types of  patient communications, whether via  email or text in this example. And so,  this is really the best place to  kickstart that wayfinding experience.  And that's and that's what I'll show you  there. So, I got my text message. I'm  ready to go. I click my link.

Get a  quick view of some of the appointment  details coming straight out of the  patient portal again through that  communication vendor and right into the  native experience.  And then, as you saw before, there's a  couple different pieces to my  navigation. We'll start with the driving  one. So, I got a drive there. We  facilitate a nice seamless handoff to  Google Maps, Apple Maps, Ways, and Rid  Share vendors depending on what app a  user actually has on their phone.

So  they can personalize that piece of their  journey and we'll travel through space  and time and we just arrived in Atlanta  and now I'm at the campus. Right? So I  finished my driving. I've arrived in the  right parking deck. As you guys know,  sometimes there's eight parking decks  and you got to get to the right one to  get to your appointment.

So, we do a  little bit of configuration on the back  end to make sure we get the user to the  right spot and then uh encourage them to  actually save their parking spot because  after two, three hours of a stressful  health experience, the last thing I want  to do is fumble through a campus to  figure out where my car is at.  Old Seinfeld episodes on losing your  losing your car in a parking lot.

As you  know, we've all done it many times.  Exactly.  For that matter, finding a parking spot  where I tend to go is the hardest part.  But yeah, that's San Francisco for you.  That's exactly right. Uh, so we try to  make that as as painless as possible. So  the user can save their parking space.  There's my spot there.

And now I get a  prompt. You want to continue to the  information desk in the main building.  This is fully configurable by the health  system. So maybe I can go straight to um  I'll play here for a second. Dr. Logan's  uh office. Maybe I need to check in at a  desk first. Maybe I need to get a  visitor badge.

Maybe there's some steps  I need to take along the way. We'll  facilitate that handoff in the mobile  app to ensure that people go to all the  right stops at the right time. I'm going  to hit no. So there's my point of  interest. As you can already see in the  background, now I've got this wonderful  indoor view of the campus. So it  includes the parking spaces, the surface  lots, the points of interest inside the  facilities, the hallways, the doors, the  stairs, the elevators, right? All that  level of detail we're able to capture

from the CAD plans of the facility and  uh build an interface a rich 3D map  where users can engage with the map  directly or they can just navigate  wherever they need to.  Out of interest is there a on that what  you just said is there is there a  standardized inside map or do you have  to do you have to create that when you  go to a new facility?  we create something you can hook into  floor plan or whatever or or do you have  to create that yourselves? I don't even  know.  It's leveraging whatever they have which

is not always standard and then we  basically standardize that and get it  into this mapping that you see here.  So you have to do some work there. I  just had no idea. I mean,  yeah,  there's Google Maps and there is like  satellites and whatever. And yeah,  that's that's fairly familiar, but  inside buildings, I didn't know if there  was such a thing as a standardized way  of mapping buildings.

Yeah, and that's a it's a unique point,  Matthew, because healthcare is very  different in that nothing is standard  about building, right? Most of the Home  Depot kind of look the same. They're  like big rectangles and they've got rows  and then they've got numbers and I know  exactly how to maneuver those.

Um, but  our platform is built to uniquely deal  with the complexity of healthcare  campuses, right? Imagine  every In-N-Out burger in California is  exactly the same. Clearly not the case  for every hospital in the world. Yeah,  [laughter]  that's right. That's right. So, takes a  little bit of work. Um, but something  we've, you know, done in scale and just  we continue to tweak our platform to  deal with those

complexities in the best  way possible so that uh patients don't  feel that complexity, right? They just  follow the they just follow the  instructions and off they go, which I'll  show you here just in a second. So, I'm  looking here at my my preview route. I  don't know if you guys are like me, but  every time I want to go somewhere, for  some reason, I need to see what it's  going to look like before I start going.  So, uh, we enable that experience as  well and kind of get bird's eye view of  where I'm about to journey. Um, and then  I can actually go ahead and kickstart  that experience and follow the yellow  brick road here. So,  there we go.  Oh, here we go. You  love it.  Fake the fake walking it.

[laughter]  I we could always send Christine out to  a local hospital and just make her walk  around and show that [laughter]  and and have her directly  that way. But here we go.  I do like to collect my steps. Yeah.  Yeah. [clears throat]  And the little blue guy. It's kind of  fun.

We've had some requests to to make  that um you know unique to the brand. So  for a children's hospital, their logo  and you know a teddy bear or whatever  else. So we can do all of that and make  it super unique um to the customer and  the experience that they want to create.  Okay. But uh presumably the average  person using it is just seeing their own  dot just like you're on a Google map as  you want to run but it's indoors.

Do you have um problems connecting? So,  you know,  do people have to connect to Wi-Fi or  connect to, you know, or is basically 5G  these days good enough inside most  buildings and it's just working?  Go ahead, Katie.  Sure. Yeah. So, no Wi-Fi required here.  It's all running off B and Bluetooth um  enabled little sensors uh that get hung  up inside the the ceilings that are  But is there is there a need for the  consumer to

connect something? or is it  just for them just [clears throat]  automatic?  No need for the consumer. If the phone's  working and it's open, it's routing. And  part of the beauty of that is, as  Christine mentioned with the, you know,  how the hospitals are built and then  they just add locations and they build  and they sprawl and the walls are three  feet thick and we wanted no um no  disruption or friction on needing Wi-Fi  and other technology to make that.  But they've put in sensors. They put in  sensors just for you or is that

something that's being used for other  tools as well? Yeah. So, we have our  sensors, our beacons that we hang. Um,  that's all included. And then, of  course, with uh the way technolog is  advancing to have Bluetooth enabled,  RTLS, asset tracking, lighting, and  smart hospitals of the future, uh, we  can certainly integrate with those  infrastructure.

They may have some infrastructure  already. They may not, and figure it out  as you go on a customized basis. All  right. Brilliant.  Now, we now we've made it to the  information desk. Fantastic. I think  Christina you were going to show us the  same thing or something similar within  the my job portal.  So here's an experience inside again of  a patient portal. Take us back a level.

This this screen is familiar to many and  there are many different ways to to  drive a call to action of wayfinding  inside the patient portal. We've mocked  up just two here. Um one being just  general search and navigation. So, if I  just want to search for something, maybe  I'm visiting someone again or maybe I  just want to go to an urgent care  facility, I don't need to book an  appointment, just want to get easy  driving directions there.

Uh, we  facilitate that experience. Again, all  embedded within the patient portal.  Um, and then if we want to think about  uh actually having an appointment, like  we saw with that text reminder, um, I  actually have an appointment. I want  that seamless um you know handoff of the  experience from getting my reminder to  now time to go to my appointment.

So  I've got an appointment here, future  visit. I'll click that. And these are  familiar screens inside of inside of my  chart. Um and we've got a little plug  down here, a little call to action to  jump into the navigation guide. And  you're going to hear me sound start to  sound a little repetitive here. Get an  understanding of the journey ahead of  me.

I've got my driving piece, my  parking piece, and then of of course the  walking section. So, I'll choose my  driving preference, which is Google, my  safe parking spot. And this looks  familiar as well. I'm in the right  parking garage. I can save my my parking  space. I can configure this if I need  to. So, I'll save that so I can get back  to that at the end.

And then, as you  saw, um, I get to follow that same  yellow brick road again. This time,  again, fully embedded within the patient  portal. So, this journey is a little bit  different. He goes in an elevator, pops  up a couple floors later, and he's got a  shorter path. Um, but how cool for us to  travel through time and space in these  campuses and see this. Go ahead, Katie.

Yeah, I was just going to say, um, we're  proud of the fact that that rich  experience that has been in in mobile  and native and a part of Goio's  portfolio for over a decade now is is  now available. Um, super rich and and  equal, right? Equal experience um,  inside the patient portal. So, this is a  new launch for us.

Um we're taking our  first customer live this month. Look  forward to to many more. Um seeing a  fair bit of interest in helping to bring  that navigation journey, but for those  health systems where the patient portal  is truly serving as our front door. Um  so now we've got an option for for that  as well.

So, more to come on that over  the course of the year, but this is  something we're excited to now be  officially in the toolbox around and  able to offer to those systems um that  are interested in putting it inside of  my chart.  Very cool. Which get which uh and thanks  Christian. I think we're done with the  demos now, right? Um but uh this G gives  us leads us to obviously the the the the  sort of the big question anybody who's

working with the hospitals today in  terms of tech is um what what do you  think the relationship with Epic and  then to certain extent Oracle and and  and  yeah and others what do you think for a  company like you who's got a you know  bringing stuff together but also got a  couple of specialized applications um  what does that look like at the moment  [laughter]  a general so general conversation more  that from a goio perspective. I know  you're in the toolbox with Epic, but  tell me a bit more.  Yeah, I think in general, the way we  like to think about it, it truly is.  It's a better together story. It's it's

That's what we believe and  and really are seeing that play out now  um in particular with Epic opening this  category into toolbox and bringing that  in um because the market was asking for  it. Um so we're excited about that  possibility. Um,  and do you think that their I mean that  their strategy at the moment seems to me  to it's it's you know there's a lot of  big questions around certain things like  AI scribing what have you what they're

doing and they're building their own  they're building somebody else's we've  seen a lot of other players like you see  a health build some of its own stuff but  also has a bunch of people who are in  their marketplace offering solutions and  you know it might the more you know  there might be something reason about  that solution which might be better use  better to use that than to use the one  that's that's native to Athena And  obviously people do that. I mean is your  sense that you're going to be building  more  integration and more sort of more  complexity and more features into what

you're delivering um even while they're  adding stuff on.  Yeah. I think the you know it's like we  were talking about earlier the the  fragmentation of all these solutions is  the problem. So I think if we can find a  way to bring that all together through  rich integrations  to complement the solutions that are  doing the solving the operational  problem that's that's a good win for the  industry from my perspective.

And so we  philosophically want to be able to do  that and deliver that and not just give  that out to you know a commoditized  experience that's oneizefits-all for  every single health system. The need to  differentiate the need to be unique in  market. there's a lot of, you know,  intense competition in some places that  um are looking to to serve that  community and we we can help them do  that through integration and truly  differentiated offerings.

Yeah. And if there's one thing I can  add, many of the large health systems as  well have m have deployed multiple  different EHRs in their ecosystem. So,  how do you how do you  shock to hear that would go on in a in a  [laughter] wellorganized health system?  That's right.  But how do you Yeah.

How do you maintain  kind of the the one single brand and  feel and mobile experience when your  patients are going to access a number of  different tools depending on you know  regional center they what regional  hospital they go to. So we see value in  trying to make that easier for health  care systems too.  So and to that respect um ballpark and  you may you may have some what what is  it going to cost a hospital to sort of  lay a goio on a hospital system to lay a  goio on top of what they're doing and  then when they say to you when you have  the unpleasant conversation they say  okay we're writing you a big check here  you know what's the ROI on us doing this  what's your answer to that so give me a  range about what it what it what this  costs compared to you know what it costs  in general and then what's the what's  what's the ROI that they're looking for?  Yeah, we certainly like to answer that  ROI question first, right? I mean,  that's just fundamental to this being a

value and not just a cost or another  tool that's going to be purchased and  put on the shelves. And we think first  about that, um there's a few things  around revenue and growth with some of  the access and volume. um some of the  efficiencies and saving operations and  staff um with uh driving direct access  and workflows, some improvement around  quality, but certainly the patient  satisfaction and survey metrics and and  all the experience measures and seeing  movement there.

Um I'll give you a few  examples of that. We did um a uh webinar  with a client just recently and I talked  about the roll out of their application  and shared a few key stats that total  new patient visits increased by 24%  after deploying our mobile app and  channel with them. um calls per visit  decreased by 25% in primary care and  overall call volume dropped 8% just  again by bringing that channel forward.

From an experience perspective, uh,  Google ratings increased by a point and  a half and their brand reputation score  went from 64 to 83 in 12 months because  they were able to start to overcome some  of what they were uh receiving negative  feedback around um, for their overall  experience.

That's an example of of a  heavy mobile customer who's not doing as  much with wayfinding, right? So, it's a  it's a it depends on where we want to  meet them where they are and what  they're trying to solve for. So, from a  cost perspective, it's a platform fee.  It's annual wayfinding. We look at  square footage, which is to Christine's  point, some of the optionality around  how far you go into a building, how much  you want to actually go all uh map.

Um,  and then we of course want to partner  with folks to scale, but we try to stay  away from the per user per month kind of  stuff. We want it to be about the full  experience and complement their  strategy.  I mean, give me a rough ballpark about  what a decent system is is spending to  put this in.  Um, I would say order of magnitude, you  know, depending on the size of the  systems.

We're talking hundreds of  thousands, not millions.  Okay. So, it's it's it's not redoing  Epic.  It's absolutely [laughter]  not. Let me be so clear about that.  Okay.  Uh, this but it's but it's not a trivial  thing. into line and the CFO is looking  at it. You've got to be able to prove  that that it actually moves those  numbers the way you're talking about it  and it has an impact on the bottom line.

Fair enough.  And we can. Yeah. And we can and our  customers have. So that's what we want  to, you know, plant our flag in and and  really lead with that the value and the  outcome that they're looking for.  Brilliant. And just to conclude, give me  a couple of numbers about uh go. How  many people how much money have you  raised? When did you last raise money?  Give me give me a flavor of how the  company itself.

Yeah. So um still pretty small about 11  years 12 years in just under 100 people  uh organizationwide.  Um last uh all fundraising has been  mostly private and family funding with  some infusion of growth capital from one  outside investor. Um so it's been uh  strategic and intentional um marching  toward profitability and we'll see where  the next year.

Do you have a number raised?  Uh I don't I don't have a total number  raised. Part of that is I wasn't here  for that whole journey, Matthew. So,  I'll have to check it and maybe get back  to you on that.  I I know I know that Morgan Stanley put  in 40 by by using the brilliant the  brilliance of my uh  your AI friends  of my uh B Google.

So, she looks like  Morgan Stanley invested and managed to  put some money in back in back in 2022.  I don't know how much it was, but  2022. That's right. And I joined about a  year ago and they are still the the  primary only outside investor in that  sense.  All right.  Um And a good partner. Good partner.  Great.

And then what what does good look  like? You come back here in uh you got  say I think you mentioned 20 25 systems.  35 35 system.  Yeah. About just 35. Yes.  What does come back here in three years  time? If if the if you guys have done  your job correctly, what does it look  like?  Oh man. [snorts] In three years time,  how about we're in every health system?  I like that ambitious goal.

No,  certainly we want to accelerate growth  around mobile. Um, we want to really  lean into this offering within My Chart  patient portal and and and hopefully  with uh Cerner as well. Um, as they  evolve their patient portal offering, we  want to be able to tuck that in.  They have any customers left by the time  they're done.

[laughter]  I have they still have a bunch of  customers. I know.  That's right. They do. We have several  of them. Um, so they they kind of take  their portal to the next level. I think  there's going to be an interesting story  for us together too with both wayfinding  and mobile. Um, but we accelerated  growth is the name of the game just like  any any company you talk to, right? And  but that's because we believe we're at a  point from an industry perspective that

it's it's more ready for it than it  probably has been in a long time.  Yeah. And speaking of somebody who now  goes to a lot of hospitals, um, I think  it's probably a very useful product and  feel free to go sell it to UCSF anytime  you can.  [laughter]  Well, well, tell them you uh you  tell them you got they had a patient  request anyway. [laughter] All right.  Fantastic.  Wonderful. I was speaking with Katie  Logan and Christine Smith who are  respectedly the uh chief strategy  officer and the VP of strategic  solutions alliances at Goio and showing  us the system. So Katie Christine,  thanks a lot for your time.

Thank you so much. Yes.  Thank you, Matthew.