Title: Greg Whisman, Caremore

URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F--lTlTVHHk
Language: en
Duration: 00:48:26
Upload Date: Oct 24, 2025

Transcription:

Hi, Matthew Halt, another TCB spotlight and we're going to delve into one of my favorite topics everyone knows about which is primary care and I have with me Greg Wishman. Greg is uh Greg is uh the chief medical officer of care which is part of uh the big elevance organization 

but is pretty well known from its uh it its days long ago as being a sort of independent uh medical group managing the um managing the elderly uh in or seniors uh as part of Medicare and no Medicare Advantage. We'll deal in a lot more about what that means running that um but 

uh Greg has quite the background. He actually really was a primary care doctor for many years himself in Ohio. Worked in various places after that within uh uh within the sort of the larger Anthem/elevent what the hell it's called now organization. Um and Greg you've been uh 

uh chief medical officer camel for what three years now? Is that right? Uh well really about a year and a half. I've been with the organization just over two. Okay. So get it good to get it right. So let's let's start at the beginning. Um those of us who've been hanging out in 

this world for a long time know the caremore has been around for a long time starting off in Southern California and then as it got after it got purchased by um I guess them wellpoint probably or ransomware elements now uh what it has done and spread obviously the role of um 

delivering care as well as financing care for seniors in elements has become a bigger deal Medicare advantage has become a bigger deal over that time etc so can you kind just give a quick thumbnail from where Keml was to what it is now and what it represents within the the world 

of elements. Well, I think you hit on something really uh gerine. So large expansion got into some east coast markets as well as the southwest and over the last two years we've really kind of actually consolidated our operations into several key markets to really focus on what we 

what make care more great. So, we're in California, Arizona, Nevada, Tennessee, and currently have uh a smaller presence in Iowa, North Carolina, and Texas. Our core model is really there in the in the Southwest, in the Nevada, Arizona, in California markets. And so, that is where 

we are taking full risk um on Medicare lives. We've got a little bit of um some commercial lives baked into there. And then of course a lot of duals special needs type plans. So um does that mean that you are only so essentially you're a medical group owned by a big health plan 

but you're taking risk from other medical advantage plans as well. Is that correct? That is correct. We actually went through a process this year um under a private equity company with two other large healthcare organizations, Millennium Physician Group in the southeast and ARIRE 

which does a lot of employer based healthcare. Um and in that new entity, Elevance or um Carolon is a minority stakeholder today that I've done. Yeah, we've actually now now you are kind of independent of that, right? Exactly. Okay. Okay. That that that that makes a lot of sense. 

So, uh so yeah, pre was pre is the one that had various pieces including the bit of cast light and had something to do with Japan Morgan Health and then uh and you mentioned Millennium Physicians. So, there's a bunch of stuff in there and there's a separate private equity fund group 

funding that as well. Uh so, it we're all under one it's called Mosaic Health. Okay. um from CDNR who has you know a large track record in healthcare and merger acquisitions and startups. Um they partnered with Elevance Health to develop Mosaic Health here and we're really on a 

trajectory to um bring together valuebased health care across uh not only MA but commercial and fold in our our Medicaid lives. For instance, Millennium Physician Group has a really successful um uh MSSP or Medicare acco um in the southwest or in the southeast rather. And you know, 

we're trying to figure out, you know, what does that strategy look like? How do we put these complimentary pieces together in a way that really strategically makes sense while giving us kind of economies of scale um in the private equity industry. Okay. So, let's um and we can probably 

put a separate conversation somewhere in this about the role of private equity in healthcare. literally have just been looking at some of the steward bankruptcy stuff going well that's interesting but let's go back to sort of care more um what uh as a medical group that's providing 

actual care for seniors what are the key things that you think an atrisisk organization is doing you know what you what are you guys doing what are the what are the real key tenants and and you know over the years folks like you know Rashika Fangopoly and Sasha Jane who was had your 

job at camber at one point have talked a lot about, you know, the different things you need to do, including managing loneliness and managing uh, you know, social determinance of health and that kind of stuff and coaching people. But what what do you think uh, you know, the latest is 

as to what do you have to do to manage the care and the health of seniors? Well, I think we all know this. One of the illnesses of the health care system at large is you go in to see your doctor and I think the average time till you're cut off is 30 seconds and the average time of the 

visit is somewhere in the nature of seven minutes. And so much of what determines how a patient does how they avoid going to the ER, how they stay out of the hospital happens outside that seven minutes. And so that barely gives you enough time to ask, you know, about their family, their 

plans, their goals of care, um, you know, reconcile their medications and fill out the medical record, which can just be an albatross, and it's on to the next patient. Where we're different is we allow ourselves much longer times, smaller panel sizes, in-depth care, um, both for us and 

our network partners because it's not just our employee clinicians. And we wrap care around that patient. So, we've got social work that can help us with social determinance of health, um poor socioeconomic status, um getting them meals on wheels, arranging transportation. We've got case 

management that's looking at patients that have been in facilities a number of times and helping us with those transitional care elements. Um, and so you're really wrapping a team-based model around that patient um, to help pick them up between those discrete instances when they see their 

provider and then making sure that we have appropriate access form so they can have same day access. We've got a national almost internal teleaalth service. We've got a team of nurse practitioners that if you need someone 247, you get on and you can talk to a Caremore nurse practitioner 

and have a virtual visit in our own electronic medical record that can tee up things for social work, can tee up things for case management, or get them back in with their primary care doctor. So, we're really trying to pick that patient up across the continuum rather than in the discrete 

kind of minefield that is primary care, you know, pretty much throughout the country. And for an elderly population, that's critical, right? Not only the relationship, but making sure that if they need to bring their u you know, their their daughter, their son, their spouse to really be able 

to understand what's going on with their care, bring that partner in, they've got complex medical needs, just way more than you're going to be able to accomplish in a traditional primary care setting for the population we serve. So I've heard um and just to go into that a little bit further 

some of the things I've heard about from various players in this you know like like mentioned Rashik Fop but also the Park brothers now are doing this at uh at Devoted Health and elsewhere is that you you know there's a sort of coaching angle how do you figure out to get to have a person who's 

not a you know doesn't have an MD and went to residency and has years of training but you has time to manage and help people figure out work through issues like you how should they be shopping with a diabetic or whatever. And there's also um management of very chronically you know management 

with very complex ill people and some people are doing more house calls for that and and you know putting and doing kind of virtual hospital at home and doing a lot more remote monitoring. C can you give me a flavor of the sort of extent to where you're going to manage both those kinds of things? 

Yeah, I think it all starts with our recruitment.o, um, we've got active positions that are out there and what are we prioritizing? Obviously, you know, um, clinicians that are, you know, have made their board certification, they've made this their career, their life, but you're looking for that 

emotional intelligence and the ability to connect with people that come out of the screen, come across in an interview that they can develop that relationship and that kinship with a patient. And we're putting those people into into the field where they're going into people's homes. we're putting 

into our clinics to make sure that people know that that's their home for their care. And so we're prioritizing that relationship that they can build, the people that are really passionate. Um, a lot of our docs are mid-career. Um, so they have some experience in the health care ecosystem, 

whether it's inpatient or in the ambulatory space. So they've got a depth of chronic disease, but really we're looking for that kind of next level nurse practitioner, next level doctor that is really able to connect with the patient and ensure that the patient knows that this is the place that 

is going to care for them uh throughout their journey. So you know, it really starts with bringing in the people that this is their passion. And so when when you find those people, they they excel and stand they come right off the page at you. Um I get it. You need the right kind of person and 

you know not necessarily the medical school has been you know producing. It's probably far down the list of things that medical school empathetic lovely person although you know you have got to you got to find your orthopedic surgeon somewhere. So there is that. But um but uh what do what do you 

think uh what do you know what else in terms of systems do you have on board that are a little bit different? Yeah. So, um, you know, what makes us unique? You know, the the phrase out there that you always hear is either patiententric care or whole person care, but but I I like to really use 

that whole continuum care because we're we are able to deploy for acute needs in transitional situations, providers into the home. And it's not just sending a home health person out. This is our our nurse practitioner that might be seeing patients in the clinic that day or the next day. I mean 

it is our care team on delivery if you will. So we've got the remote teleahalth. So we are picking people up with the talented um you know not the nurse line on the back of your card but rather um our nurse practitioners and doctors in the house. If you're institutionalized we're sending them 

into your facility and they have the resources available. the same medical system that the electronic medical record that we're using in the clinic, we're bringing into your house. And we are coupling that with advanced population health analytics on risk stratification and who's at risk to 

fall and who's at risk for readmission. And you're getting that information um really at the bedside and the bedside is no longer contained within our four walls. And so we're bringing that to sort of intelligence and technology into the field with the right team and the right resource and 

wraparound resources that we can capture that patient um ensure that they're getting their medications on time. We're still reaching back in a bit into the Elevance infrastructure. We do use their uh PBM for delivery of medications, but we're able to facilitate and have line of sight to 

really the entire continuum. What's really cool about us is we also we use the dirty word utilization management, right? The the certification techniques, but we still do that activity. So, we're able to capture the patient the second they hit the door of a hospital, too. Whereas many provider 

groups are blind to a patient once they're in the four walls of the hospital until they are discharged home. We are managing that care and alerting our case management teams to work handinhand with the facility to ensure that that patient's ready to go home on time with the needs that they have 

going home. Whether it's new walkers or wheelchairs or hospital beds or to ensure that their medications delivered on time, we are managing each one of those spaces without the blind spots. Yeah, I think you know that that that sounds great and and and to be honest that sounds like continuation 

of what you know care more and many of those other some California groups have been working towards since the '9s. Um let let me ask you about two things. First off well what what do you see as the results from this full care full risk approach where you're at risk for the as you mentioned for 

the drugs but you're at risk for the hospital care as well and specialy care as well as the primary care you're delivering. I mean, how much more are you spending on primary care and how much money are you quote unquote saving and what kind of results are you seeing from that population compared 

to other people in Medicare or Medicare Advantage? You know, when when I look at it, I I look at a couple things, excuse me. One, um, star rating, right? Critically important in the Medicare Advantage space. Drives revenue, but also speaks to the caliber of your care. We're a fourstar player. 

We're creeping on four and a half stars. Really have strong organizational infrastructure in driving improved quality of care. Two, we use a lot of the Millan benchmarks for a well-managed population even though I know our population has traditionally lower socioeconomic means, multiple multiple 

chronic conditions and um really sometimes the healthcare literacy or activation isn't there. And what we're seeing is that we are managing close to in some circumstances right on the precipice of a millin well-managed commercial population. So you're noticing readmission rates for this really 

disproportionately complex um population flittering around with where you would expect a commercial population to be. We've noticed our admissions uh per thousand when we look at our claims like we are admitting as if we don't have institutionalized special needs plans and a whole bunch of DNIPS. 

We do. So the investment in managing the really complex patient is allowing us to perform at a rate and at a level that you would expect of a healthier population in a more commercial age population which um is really I think a testament to that comprehensiveness of model and the investment in 

the infrastructure we've had. Can can you give me some rough ballpark numbers how much more you think you're spending on primary care than typical and how much you're saving because of that? Oh, that's a great question, Matt. I and I probably am the worst to to answer that question in our 

organization because I'm so focused on our clinical model. I will tell you um we have a significant investment and and we're really leveraged to take care of an even larger population. So, our medical overhead right now because we've done this consolidation kind of slowed down. Yeah. Um consolidated 

to get bigger. Um and so we're we're still leaning into that operation and getting our core um business model as efficient and fluid as possible. And we've had this large investment of of of some of the private equity um venture. So, you know, I would be remiss to even throw out a figure. 

Well, let let me let me let me ask you a different question. um for forget for the moment caremore, forget the the new organization, forget the history. If what what we've seen and I've had a good look at the human numbers, for example, they put this out every year and others is that you know for 

Medicare Advantage about a third to a quarter a quarter to a third of the people in Medicare advantage are in an organization like yours and the rest are kind of out there in some kind of looser risk sharing arrangement or just straight through the service. Then of course half the population is in 

fever service. Then a bunch of them are in of the fever service groups in MS SPS and ACOs which can vary from the person doesn't even know they're in the ACO to actually being pretty tightly managed you know and you have far wandering around with these folks at LA and you know talking about how they 

are turning independent doctors into acco etc. Why why is it that um you know and I would say that a lot of people in that business say we spend roughly double what we do in primary care and we save somewhere between 20 to 30% you know overall you know um so I guess my question is why why has this 

model been so you know it's not a secret right we've had Kaiser in the 1930 since 1937 why has this model been so hard to spread if theoretically Medicare advantage should be interested in, you know, in saving money and managing people better. It seems to be seems objectively to be a better model 

and it seems to be uh and it seems to be one that saves money. So like why hasn't everyone got one? So uh a great question. I I think there's a few trends that that I could opine on if you'll allow me. The the first is um you know I spent time as a CMO of a Medicare acco and we could have at any time 

doubled our attributed lives in our population if we had just grabbed that patient had them come in one more time in that year. Doubled it. It would have gone up to about 70,000 lives from 36,000. And so, you know, I think there's a lot of patients out there that enroll at the time of annual 

enrollment and they see the free benefits or the zero dollar co-pays and they switch plans a lot. Um, and when they switch plans, sometimes the provider's in, sometimes they're out, sometimes they, you know, are moving providers and so they're reticent to just jump into one of these organizations. 

Why? It sounds like a lot. It's a little intimidating, right? like, oh, I I've selected this plan and I'm going to go into the camera and that means I can only see this group of, you know, doctors or nurse practitioners. And that can be a little intimidating, especially if you don't, you know, eat, 

live, breathe, and sleep in this space uh for the average senior. So, I think they get lost a little bit in the millu of just a lot thrown at them in a short amount of time and usually they get attracted to a couple of the benefits. Um, the other thing is, you know, there's a lot of people that 

don't have a great sense of really the health care ecosystem from the standpoint of what's a premium, what's a deductible, how many meds am I on, what do I need to consider, who do I need to go to for my meds. I mean, it is so fractured out there trying to guide a senior in general that it could 

be exhausting. And so, you know, the average senior is looking at the benefits. The health plans are looking at the overall costs, right, that are in the MA space. So, the senior might just be looking at like, okay, you know, they're going to offer me free termite service and I get free meds and 

oh, by the way, I get a grocery card and and that wins at AP. And so, you know, by the time you get in a couple months, you start to see a little bit of shifting of that population. And so going that extra mile to a Caremore, to an Archwell, a Centerwell, a ChenMed, any of these type advanced primary 

care models is I don't want to call it a bridge too far, but it's tricky. On the health plan side, it's risk, right? They got to set it up in the right place. For us, we are delegated for utilization management. On this side of the Mississippi, I'm sitting in Ohio currently. There's not a lot of 

delegation for M. You go out west and it's a pretty part for the course model. And so they haven't really um dove into that full continuum take that risk on as a provider organization care here in in kind of the Midwest and the West or the East rather. So you know there is risk on behalf of the 

health plan that they aren't developing the full risk you know kind of capitated model and then I think the patients getting them to jump through those hoops. The other thing I'll say is when I implemented some some ChenMed practices um in a previous life, you have to pick where you put those 

practices in various areas of town where you have the chronicity of medical illness. You've got the people that need because you're investing in those resources and it recruits that patient population. Some of those advanced primary cares are sending vans out into the field so they want to be able 

to pick all their prov you know patients up to get into the provider in a very small catch net. So each of the models are subtly different, but I think we know as, you know, we continue to have a lot of baby boomers aging in every day that these models can really be a great resource, especially for 

the ones with multiple medical conditions. Yeah. I mean, I I let me push a bit harder, but this has been we've known this for a while, right? And theoretically, we you know, and it's not easy. I'll give you that. And yes, you have to persuade patients and but on the other hand, you know, if it's if 

it's so much better and cheaper, wouldn't the plans who are holding the risk be more be interested in pushing it harder? I'm just curious as why you think that hasn't happened. So I think the plans so my experience you know having been a regional chief medical officer for Anthemelevance um you know 

we did push a lot of our valuebased partners in in deals in membership and growth for um you know any of these the Care Moors the Oak Streets the ChenMeds we wanted to push membership to them and partner with them um where it gets a little murky is you know as a clinic we are multi-payer So we are 

not going to solely see your patients. We are not solely going to manage one pair. And so they get into again managing multiple riskbased arrangements trying to push volume. And of course if you're sitting on the health plan side you want to disproportionately get your members in there because you're 

going to save on the overall membership. So it's a ying and a yang but you can't get around. I mean, Matt, we're we're, you know, I think conservatively 25,000 family medicine doctors short in the community, you know, at present. And so, you know, it's hard when I I still see patients um virtually uh 

quite a bit and I hear from people that are like they just can't find someone or six months to get in. And so, there's probably too few of these advanced primary care clinics as well for the patients that even want to get into one of these type models. So, um, you know, we've made it unnecessarily 

complicated. Yeah. Um, so let let me I I I want to have a philosophical conversation about this because I I think I have I think I have the solution, but we'll get to my solution in in a second. And uh but um one thing before I get there is that there there's always somebody somewhere who's done 

something really well and I always go, why hasn't this spread anyway? So, one I'm going to pick up on, you probably run into this guy called Bob Matthews who works with a clinic in uh in in Ohio. Uh the Primeade Clinics in Dayton, Ohio, and he gives these lectures about how they've figured out

with with his company Medicine and and Medicine, I think it's called, and Primeade, how they've figured out how to get all of their patients, including like their patients in the in the in the rough parts, you know, in some of the poorer parts of uh of Dayton. Um that was for me. So I I'm very familiar.

Well, you know how they've got them at Target and yeah, Kaiser's only at 70% and California as a whole is only at 50% or you what whatever the numbers are for for blood pressure on target. I don't maybe it's only your blood pressure is treated well if you go to that clinic. I don't know. But uh but I 

guess and years ago you know one of my buddies John Madison who was then a Kaiser forever said to me the group thing about American healthcare is we know what to do we just don't know how to do it. H how have we if we take something like you know high blood pressure management of high blood pressure 

something that's well known how to do it it's got some complexity behind all the rest of it. Why has that not spread at scale? Why do we have such poor numbers for chron these chronic care uh these chronic care uh illnesses across the board, you know, as a nation? Why haven't we figured this out? Um well, 

there's probably a couple reasons and and and I would say one, we know the meds, right? We know the meds. Yeah. Um we know medications that can make a big difference, but there's so many other things that go into the management of high blood pressure, diabetes, congestive heart failure. the reason why 

chronic disease is booming through the roof. Um, you know, there is significant societal decisions we've made, whether it's going to high fructose corn syrup, going to, you know, a lot of the things that are in our foods. Um, albeit you see it a lot. Do you know anybody that drinks just one Diet Coke a day? 

No. Um, do you know one person that drinks one Mountain Dew a day? No. You know, it's like the person that smokes just one cigarette a day. Doesn't happen. And so there's a lot of and and and those are influenced by societal things, right? Like, you know, you you take your smoke break, you take your, you 

know, your break at work and you're chugging a do and you do that, you know, four times a day. And so we make a lot of decisions that are counterproductive to the medications you're on that the the clinicians are trying to focus on. And so there are good techniques. the DASH diet works really well to help 

with with high blood pressure. So, you couple that with an anti-hypertensive, you can get great control. Um, you know, it's that extra education of the patient and being the partner of the patient, not the shepherd, as you will, you know, guiding them there, but it's really talking to them and being their 

partner in managing their condition. But it is, it's a two-way street. We've had, you know, food stamps for years that has enabled Cheetos and cheese puffs and, you know, other things that are again counterproductive to someone that might not understand or have been instructed how counterproductive that is 

to their chronic disease that they're managing or the risk that they have for developing that. And so I I think we we know a lot on the medication front. Although I will say we don't know enough about the interactions and the downsides because of some of the way our journals have been corrupted and our and 

our um our science has been a little bit corrupted on the back end from pharmaceutical interests. But the interactions of some of those meds, you know, cause some issues. But I think it's a more holistic approach to the patient. And that's where we're running into trouble is that we haven't been able to 

have some of those honest dialogue about the life choices, the medications, and what it takes to comprehend. And we don't train our clinicians to have that dialogue. So the obvious sort of step from anybody sitting like where I do in Silicon Valley would say is that well, you know, the way we do this is we 

use is that we use information or now AI, you know, to communicate with patients and to help them with this. What what do you think is the solution? And what do you what are you guys planning on doing at uh at Chemmore and elsewhere in the the organization to use technology or whatever. What is the solution 

to getting people? I mean, it's great to say, well, it's all the fault of big food, you know, for putting you know, crappy food and and advertising and and they do, right? And we all, you know, fast put it in your own mouth, though. Your brains fast food nation is 30 years old. And the bit about how, you 

know, the bit in that book about how the how the New Jersey flavor labs make, you know, made Cheetos or cheeseburgers so damn delicious, you know, it's still really true. We've done very little to stop that. um whatever RFK says he's doing, but but you know, how do we how how do you think we're going to use 

the new tools that AI and others are giving us to combat this? And what are you planning on doing about it? I mean, we can say we're going to give up. It's too hard. But yeah, I think what do you think we should do from a patient perspective? I think it gives them incredible power. Sitting across from a patient 

that was bringing in Dr. Google and holding it up and it was like one article based off something and it was for some niche disease. I think AI gives a patient the power to comb through all that and say here are kind of my symptoms, here's my age, what's my risk profile look like? Makes them a more informed 

consumer to decide whether to start on a medication or move forward. So one, I think you now have empowered and educated a patient in a way that, you know, 20 years ago we didn't see. We just saw the latest Google search or Medline headline. Two, I think on on the clinician side, it allows really two kind of 

cool things. One, it allows clinicians to comb through some of that noise and stay a breast of the most recent information about something because AI though it is influenced by whoever, you know, kind of programmed it, by and large can take large amounts of data and distill it down. you know, I can ask for a, 

you know, a three-page summary of all the data that's out on X, Y, or Z, and it'll do that within 15 seconds. And you can actually get an independent assessment about like, okay, is it good or bad? You know, what are the risk? What are the things that I'm willing to accept before I take a medicine, take a 

vaccination, do you know, do a particular test? Um but three on the on for the health care system in general. Um can you imagine the research that and I'm going to give pharmacy pharma some credit here a pharma a pharmaceutical company or a biomemed researcher can do if they can synthesize all the knowledge 

or research out there to date and quickly get that so they know the next test or hypothesis to run on a medication and and get us to safer meds. I think it really enables their really smart folks to take that next step and that next journey. So I think AI has a tremendous resource there for Caremore.

We're going to start embedding it and help with our um one our clinicians burn out and work life balance because we'll be able to synthesize um templates and you know kind of streamline their inbox management so it's less take-home work that they need to do. two, they're going to be able to use that to 

review lab results and pick up abnormals and trends and put that at their fingertips. You know, for us, we're also going to use that in our utilization management programs, not to rely on AI necessarily to make a determination because that's um that's a bridge too far, but really to help inform here's the 

coalation of, you know, the 50 page of medical records and make sure that we're not missing a key component that forces someone to go through an appeal process to get it recognized and delays um you know, until there's a clinician to clinician talk. um the ability for someone to schedule a procedure or 

something. So, we're able to utilize that to really help boost our clinicians time acumen in bedside manner because they don't have as much um hanging over their shoulders, take-home work, um things they got to stay after to do. So, we're leaning into it um by and large with the implementation of our new 

AHR um to really help streamline our our work life balance and in clinician experience. So, I think that that that's that's super interesting and I think you know there's a lot of optimism in the clinician side for you know using area for that. There's a lot of optimism and I've had Rob Bobby Pearl on the 

show before, you know, another ex Kaiser uh ex Kaiser, you know, senior senior physician leader um talking about well with AI now we can monitor chronically ill people all the time and get to exceptions and kind of and you can see where this could be going. I guess the the the the question is, you know, 

it at what pace do you think we're going to be able to do the things you're talking about to combat all the problems that we've discussed getting people into these systems and getting these systems to work at scale? Yeah, I think that's a great question. I what I would say is like and I think as

your reference to your friend at Kaiser, you know, the remote patient monitoring piece, how we monitor people when they're not there, not in front of us, not talking to someone, AI can be a great resource for that. But of course, if you're getting feeds on every patient, you could imagine overwhelming 

the the the provider. But that's kind of a discreet, right? Their blood pressure is X over Y. Their weight is this today. It's very discreet fields. But have you tried to drive down the street and hit the button and tell your car where to go and gotten listings for things that are three and 600 miles away? 

I mean, we see the robots that are fighting in China and it's like two of them and they're, you know, $700,000 a piece, but people think we're going to be out of work next year because of AI. So, you know, it we're years away from it, you know, that ability. Um but if we can start to incrementally chip 

away at um getting the most clinically relevant information in front of your provider at the right time um helping our providers to distill down what is the safest treatment regimens for you and use it very discreetly overall when we look back 10 years from now we are going to be making a lot of headway 

but I think it's going to be more incremental I mean there's probably some crazy breakthrough technology that's out there but um but this for right now is, you know, we're building data centers about as fast as we can and I just don't know that it's going to be able to keep up with um Hollywood's vision 

of what AI is going to be just yet. Well, don't forget Hollywood's version is what kills us all. So, let's hope we don't keep some some of it is anyway. My f my favorite movie, Terminator 2, is all about that. Um so, so let let me let me close and I'll tell you how I think we fixed the whole of the 

problem, right? So um uh and I think and I I'd be interested in your conclusion to this because what we've said so far and on the policy want front is we look you know there you can find thousands of people like me and like you who like this idea of let's give all the risk let's give all the management 

capability to the primary care doctors they'll figure it out for their appropriate age groups. Yeah, we split some people, you know, we made this arbitrary line. You're over 65, therefore you need this versus you're under 65, you need that, which is kind of crazy, but you know, you could get but um we've 

basically put a lot of pressure on those risk groups. And for that reason, um as you said, many other reasons, the the building of the systems, the building of the uh understanding, the muscle memory of how to do this right has been problematic. Not to mention, it's also been wrapped up in stock market growth.

and we we've seen you know companies come and go because of other financial issues happening around there. So around them so so here here here's what I think we should do that fixes this whole thing. Um I think we should actually take I think we should get rid of primary care risk. I think we should just 

give primary care doctors more money and give everybody and and there is an obvious flaw to this which I will tell you the the solution to but I think basically we give everybody in America you take a couple of thousand dollars per head obviously you have to age adjust that and risk adjust it but a number like

that you said every primary care doctor we're going to give you a panel that'll be 500 600 pick your number um but no not the two and a thousand 2,000 two and a half thousand or whatever people are facing today and you basically run a concierge practice and you will a be able to take a lot more money because 

that's about if you do the math it's about 1.2 million for 600 600 people. Primary care doctor can pay themselves half a million 600,000 do better than they do today better than you know better than most surgeons do. Um and they could use the rest of it to run programs but that's all the money they get. They 

wouldn't be responsible in my view for managing the risk and what happens afterwards. Somebody else would be responsible for that. That I would put a sort of global cap budget in to make sure nothing too crazy happens. But I think just doing that and telling primary and and giving primary care doctors and some 

of them would obviously group groups like chem groups. You let American capitalism figure that out. But I am going to lean on the professional responsibility of doctors and doctors and by the way wouldn't just be doctors. Some of these would have to be nurse practitioners because we don't have enough primary 

care doctors. Some of these would be converted internists maybe converted emergency room docs or the rest of it. But I've spent so much time hearing from you know emergency room docs saying oh half come here should just be getting primary care. You hear concierge docs who say, "Well, you know, someone lacerates 

their finger. I go around to the house and I fix it rather than having to go to the emergency room, you know." And then you get the fact that there are people who have not got primary care docs are uncontrolled and end up in the hospital with diabetes or asthma or whatever it is because no one was paying 

attention to preventative care. I think if you put the responsibility of doing preventative care and proper primary care onto a lot of doctors and you assigned people to that and you said to people you're going to get basically a free pay for by the government wonderful concier doc you might not actually have 

to to to give you wouldn't in my view have to give those primary care docs the problem of managing what happens afterwards managing the risk afterwards and that to me has been one of the big constraining factors on doing this. Now, obviously the politics what I'm talking about is is intense. I would have to 

change the healthare system, probably get rid of health plans. I a lot of different stuff in this. But from a just from a sort of vision point of view, do you think if you had enough primary care docs operating, you know, with modern technology with nurse practitioners we have, etc. , etc., that just putting 

giving people really good primary care quant primary care would fix a lot of what's going on in American healthcare. I do I I I think your your model is very interesting. Um you know very almost hoping that like CMMI is like listening and like let's do a test. I've read it up a couple of times. Yeah. By the way, 

let me just tell you where it comes from. Um my my friend Jeff Goldmith, great healthcare futurist. He said, "Look, you know, we've basically put all this stuff in because we distrust doctors and we distrust what's going on and if we, you know, and it's wrong. We shouldn't have made them put all the pressure 

on recording what they do and, you know, all the risk stuff and all the all of that comes down to and I'm wondering how do you get rid of that and just let doctors be doctors and wouldn't they do a good job if you just let them alone?" Um, yeah, you you'd have very very meaningful results is what you'd have. 

You'd have less physician burnout. Um, but you know, when you look at the medical boards, you and you just look towards Washington who creates a lot of the regulations, they don't tend to have an MD or a DO behind their name. Um, and so I won't I'll leave the other initials that might be behind their name off 

of there. But, um, but I think we know. I think you have one of those, don't you? Behind your name as well. Well, that's just a mass I'm thinking more of my friends that went to a different college of three years and passed a different type of regulating body. But um but I'll tell you, you know, I you you tap 

on something that's really rich there is that you pay doctors to be good doctors. You pay them so that they do feel valued for the lengthy education. They spend the bulk of their 20s in a book or in a hospital. Um there's an opportunity cost that comes with that. And you let them get out and you let them practice 

their craft. They love they love it. There are so many I've got a friend and and I used to deliver their newspaper to their parents and they're a general surgeon and you say I I wanted to be a primary care doctor but you know how do you make ends meet? It's always been on the low end of the payment scale and he 

tends to be one of the busiest surgeons in town because he has the bedside manner. And I started thinking about that and I paid all my medical school bills and and they're a pittance compared to what these kids are coming out with now. Um and I and I was looking at the projections on uh family medicine and 

primary care um deficit that we have for this country and it's daunting and um even with the NPs or or the APS working with with a primary care clinician, you know, they need to have some integration because of the the change the different skill sets in education. You know, we've got to do something really 

disruptive to solve this problem or we're going to be up a creek. And so I like your idea. It's disruptive. It's different. You know, I had an idea of a five-year payback for anybody that goes into family medicine and goes into ambulatory care. Um, you know, we fund med uh medical residencies out of CMS, but 

like you have to incent. And so we've got to invest in that or we're in trouble. Um because what's going to happen, you know, 10 years from now, we're going to have 50,000 less uh primary care clinicians and a whole bunch of people walking around with catastrophic episodes of uncontrolled care and the system's 

going to continue to go bankrupt. And so, um you know, hopefully somebody's listening, willing to make real seismic changes. There's a lot of students out there that'd be interested in primary care, but they, you know, they they put in all this time and they think, well, I'm going to make double if I just 

go to an extra year worth of residency. Why wouldn't I just go do that? Or that I I talked to all these primary care docs that are filling out all these forms and and risk adjusting and doing, you know, every quality measure known to man and this that and the other thing for the time and then they're going 

home and doing all their EHR work. Um I can see why that doesn't appeal um to the 20some that says, you know, that's crazy. I'd rather work, you know, standard hours or shift work or week on week off. So we've got to fix that or else we're going to be in trouble. Yeah. And I I add into that that we spend a 

lot of waste motion. You mentioned you know M and stuff but within a risk based organization it's rather different but we spend so much waste motion we're just you know not aum but just straight claims and billing and the number of people who work in a you know typical fever service primary care doctors or 

or even oh for sure specialists who are just doing that stuff which is really waste motion to me you know I think we we could we could get rid of a lot now I I'm I'm not not oblivious to the fact that if I say great this I think will save us a ton of money in specialy care and hospital care that there are 

some people who might object to that who might be specialists in hospital hospitals. And if you look at what has happened outside of organizations like yours, most hospital systems today have bought up primary care docs with the goal of getting them from the primary care doctor into the hospital as soon as 

possible and generating revenue off it. And we really are still stuck in that, you know, mo that's our conversation earlier. was stuck in that mosky fever service system and yes I think it needs a a radical ch you know whether we get a radical change in yeah up to it's up to the limit of antitrust right 

they want to get the downstream referrals their patient into the hospital um not doing anything unourred it makes it makes sense from their financial speaking but it is strongly encouraged um when they're when they're employed in those models and you know I I get it it's a it's a wise move from a health 

system um you buy up your referral base and and there's the natural inclination and you make it really easy, right? Like we'll give you a concierge number for every presert you need to get or to schedule with our hospital. We'll make it easy for you, but um but I don't know that it's getting to the point 

where we're servicing our population, the profit motive there. And we didn't even touch on, you know, the thirdayer problem um you know, spending someone else's money. But um but yeah, it it's a challenge. Yeah. And I think you know there are people obviously in the direct patient care um movement who 

believe this but they're by and large looking for either the consumer or maybe the employer to pay for that and I think the biggest problem we have and you know if you think about what Medicare advantage done right and I think I put care more and some of the other people you mentioned in that bucket is 

that there is somebody else paying I somebody else has to pay for the expensive care the care of expensive people and you know but if the average and I know it's much higher obviously in the senior population. The average is 134,000. You can't tell me the government, which is spending 60 70% of the 

healthcare dollar anyway, can't afford $2,000 each. And obviously, a lot of the care would have to go to, you know, a lot of the people who who I'm talking about have not even got a primary care doctor now, you know, and and they're the it would obviously be a big change, but I can't believe that you 

couldn't I mean, I know that with enough uh enough marketing dollars, I could sell this because it's just better than what we it's just better than than what most people experience. Well, I always go back to how many admissions, if that model, it really that framework works. How many hospital admissions 

do you have to save to account for the $2,000 per patient for 600? It turns out not to be that many if that model really has um that tangible benefit. Now, everybody will point to, you know, you'll you'll have a couple bad outcomes that bankrupt it here or, you know, it might be in a different community, 

but like, you know, it only takes a couple that are catastrophic that don't have goals in care that languish, you know, in the ventilator, the long t long-term hospitals and and really cost a lot of expense. But I'm sure there's a way to reinsure that, reinsure that catastrophic coverage um and make keep 

people whole. But there's too much money floating around the system right now to not foster innovation to try to get there. I I I I agree and I and I think that you know there's we have to think about different ways because as we both just agreed the current way that most essentially fever service medicine 

works in America is is is not helping and it's also not getting at the underlying problems that you talked about on the societal side or on the patient management side and we we we know it's not working. Um, great. We have talked for a long time and I really appreciate uh you getting into this a little bit. 

Um, it's it's been super fascinating. I hope you'll come back and and talk to me again. I'm really you know to me to me this is kind of the the in in healthcare that there are a lot of things I've done over time my time with with tech and with you know different plans this that and the other and you know this 

may upset some of your eventual or your previous employers I guess previous employers now if my plan would probably put health plans out of business but that's by probably have to end up nationalizing and putting a global budget on hospitals and doctors and that might upset a lot of your former classmates and 

all the rest of it but I I think if we as you said if We don't figure out how to get people into primary care, which is going to involve paying them more by definition and moving some doctors who are now not primary care doctors into becoming primary care doctors. And we don't figure out how to manage the primary,

you know, the primary care of the growing number of elderly with chronic illness that we're going to have. We are going to be in the health care system is going to continue to get worse rather than better. So I I think I think at least we're agreed on that. Exactly how we do it, we'll have to figure out. Absolutely.

Well, look, really enjoyed talking with you. Happy to come back anytime and chat with you. Thanks so much. I've been speaking with Greg Whisman. He is the C chief medical officer of Care More. Greg, thanks very much for your time. Thank you.
