Title: How AI and Telehealth Will Change Primary & Specialty Care | TechCon SoCal 2026 Panel
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AUWj5Teb3xA
Language: en
Duration: 00:39:07
Upload Date: July 06 , 2026

Transcription:

Welcome all. Thanks for coming. We are  uh we're going to talk about healthcare.  So, if you are interested in healthcare,  this is the right place for you. If  you're not interested in healthcare,  well, obviously you should be, but uh  this is we're not going to be talking  about hardcore AI chip manufacturing,  all the stuff you heard in the last  keynote. Um I'm Matthew Holt.

I have been doing healthcare and  healthcare technology for far, far too  long. I used to run a conference called  Health 2.0, and I run what I think still  the oldest continuous blog in healthcare  called The Healthcare Blog, where I  spend a lot of time looking at the  healthcare system as a whole, but also a  lot of time  uh looking at healthcare technology.

And I've got a really great panel. I  have to tell you that sadly Matt Sigler  from Akido Labs, which is a super  interesting company, uh sadly is stuck  in New York. There's a big storm there.  He's unable to come. So, he's the empty  chair. I will try to pretend I know what  Akido does. I know just enough to be  dangerous to to to help you with that  conversation when the intros come to  give you a flavor of some of the things  that are going on.

But really what we're  talking about here is how AI and  telehealth is really changing how care  delivery works, particularly uh  uh primary and specialty care. So, okay.  I've got with me left to right, Jamie  Ridenhour. She's the COO of the Graybill  Medical Group, which is uh based in the  in the San Diego area. In fact, we're  entirely Southern California panel apart  from me. I'm from Northern California.

Um next to her is Erin Parks, who's the  uh co-founder of Equip. Equip is a  company especially in mental health,  particularly in eating disorders. A  really interesting and uh innovative um  plan. We're going to hear a lot more  about that. And finally, Tim Shneider,  who like me originally comes from  Europe, from Germany.

He's the CEO of  Third Way Health, which is a tech firm.  We'll we'll a bit more about that. So,  I'm going to start with you, Jamie.  We're really talking about sort of  primary specialty care, but let's let's  start at the beginning.  Graybill is not a brand new startup, so  tell us a bit about Graybill, what you  do, and then you know,  where you are in your journey regarding  technology.

Yeah, thanks, Matthew. So, I'm Jamie  Redick, again COO for Graybill Medical  Group. Graybill's been  around for 94 years this year.  They are a multi-specialty medical  group. We have about 106 physicians  serving North County San Diego and  Southwest Riverside.  And so, right now we're we're adopting  tech as quickly as possible.

We've had  some fun adopting an AI communication  platform recently. Partnering with  actually Tim and Third Way Health.  And one of the biggest problems we're  trying to solve today is patient access.  As if you're working in health care, you  know, patient access is extremely  important, specifically in the  multi-specialty arena because there's  lots that goes on between the primary  care physician and the specialist.

And  so, we're trying to do our best to make  sure that the patients have a positive  experience when it comes to the health  their health care. But then also lessen  the physician burden because honestly  since COVID, we've had a challenge with  patients becoming chronically more ill.  They've got five to 10 chronic  conditions the physicians are managing.

And then how can we adopt the tech to  support them through that? So that we  keep them happy and in the practice of  medicine, which is what they've all gone  to school for.  Fantastic. Could you give us a slight  flavor of the history? I know that you  guys went through a merger and then a  demerger, and there was some technology  issues around that.

Could give us a bit  of flavor about Graybill's sort of more  recent history?  Yeah, that's a good question. Um, so in  2024, we actually went through a cyber  attack. Um, the physicians were on paper  for 6 months, um,  on paper charts. Uh, so, um, at that  time we decided to  go through the divestiture with our  partner at the time and become  independent.

And so, with that, um, our  leadership team has been able to adapt  very quickly and implement a ton of tech  since then and, uh, major security  protocols, new network infrastructure to  ensure that doesn't happen again.  Uh, the interesting thing is the company  we divested from went through a second  cyber attack within 2 years. So, that  was that was really interesting to see  and I'm very happy we didn't have to go  through that again.

Yeah, this is not a panel, it's not  primarily going to be a panel about  cybersecurity and, uh, and, uh,  vulnerability, but that's been a huge  issue in healthcare and obviously uh,  the Change Healthcare attack, uh, cyber  attack, which was  essentially because, um, United bought a  series of companies that have merged  together and nobody gone back and done  the hard work of figuring stuff out.

And  one of the things that AI is now doing,  you know, with Claude and others looking  at it, is is looking at vulnerabilities  in existing systems. So, we'll put that  to one side, but that is something that  obviously has to we have to be aware of  in healthcare. Um, and then the the last  question for you, Jamie, is is I'm going  to ask, uh, Aaron the same thing is, so  who who's the payer customer and how do  they pay you? I know there's a lot of  capitation generally in Southern  California, but how do you how are your

conditions in general rewarded? What are  their incentives?  Yeah, so, um, our business model is  about 50% um, capitated uh, payers and  50% fee-for-service. Um, to be honest  with you, the reimbursement model  doesn't support, um, independent  physicians any longer and it's moving to  a state where it's no longer supporting,  uh, the large group model either. And so  that's where you see a lot of shift in  um consolidation and PE backing in the  industry, but that's where we're trying  to adopt the AI cuz that allows us to

kind of tow the line a little bit  without having to fold into one of those  models.  W- W- We'll We'll get into that because  I think how and and I have a whole bunch  of things about how this should happen,  which is not obviously how it is  happening, but how, you know, we're  rewarding doctors and how primary care  is treated in the system is is  is is a big issue, and we'll get into  that in a bit. All right, thanks a lot.

Um Erin, uh you are you're the you're  the token clinician on the panel.  [laughter]  Number one. Tell us a little bit about  what uh the idea behind Equip. Um  So tell us a little bit about eating  disorders as a problem. So people don't  really know about that as well, so start  there.  Okay. So, I'm Erin.

I am a clinical  psychologist by training and co-founded  Equip in 2019, and the problem we were  trying to solve is that there are  excellent evidence-based treatments for  eating disorders, but you have to go to  a few academic medical centers around  the US if you want to get them. The  average clinician in your community has  not been trained in those models.

The other difficulty we are seeing is  that treating eating disorders is truly  multidisciplinary. Uh eating disorders  are the second deadliest mental health  illness both for their psychiatric  reasons, incredibly high suicide rates,  a lot of comorbidity with OCD, PTSD,  depression, um anxiety, but also for  physical health reasons.

So, about 20%  of our patients are coming to us  straight from a medical inpatient stay  where their hearts were weakened from  their eating disorder, and they  discharge from there to Equip. But our  current system wasn't really well set up  to have a multidisciplinary team that  straddles both physical health and  mental health to all be on the same  page, all to be paid together, to work  together.

Um so, we founded Equip in  2019. We're fully virtual.  Our patients get the six-person  multidisciplinary team for an entire  year fully covered by commercial  insurance and some Medicaid plans.  All right. And how do you get paid?  Uh we get paid by payers. So, we are  technically a fee-for-service contract,  but the service that we negotiated with  them is in bundled payments.

And then we  also have entered into value-based care  payments with them as well. So, we get  paid one amount per month allows us to  cover all the services that we need to.  Um and we have a set of outcomes that we  are trying to achieve that we review  with them quarterly or annually on a  population basis um in order to uh earn  all of the dollars we are owed.

And and I could take 15 seconds to boast  about your outcomes cuz they're pretty  good.  Yes, our outcomes are excellent. Um  people do well when they recover from at  home. There has long been this myth that  if you are struggling with an eating  disorder, same thing with substance use,  you have to go away.

We need to remove  you from your life and you need to go  away and get better. And that is first  of all not financially sustainable. You  can't stay away from jobs and  responsibility in life forever. But also  it doesn't work because you then go  home. And of course you stayed sober for  eight weeks when you didn't have access  to alcohol.

Or of course you ate all of  your meals when someone was sitting next  to you making you eat them. It's a whole  another thing to do it at home. And so,  our patients not only get better as well  or better than our um  brick-and-mortar outside of the home uh  peers, but they stay better longer. So,  relapse rates tend to be 30 to 50% when  you leave your home to get better and we  are have a 6% relapse rate.

Yeah, and that's I mean that's the same  thing. And and not to mention I mean as  I've learned from you and your colleague  Christine Saffron, eating disorders are  it's like the second uh most fatal type  of mental health.  They are. And so, a lot of doctors don't  want to treat them. And I think this is  also where uh one area that we're really  embracing and loving AI is most people  have never been trained in eating  disorders.

I spent 7 years getting an  excellent education from actually SDSU  and UCSD's joint doctoral program  to become a psychologist and I got 1  hour of training in eating disorders and  the training was you don't want to work  with them. That was pretty much what I  was told. And the same thing is true for  a lot of medical providers as well.

So,  we have to hire people and train them in  the evidence-based treatments.  Fantastic. All right, Tim. You are you  are the tech vendor on the panel. So,  PureTech when you say tell us a little  bit about Third Way,  what you guys do, what your model is and  where you're helping what kind of  organizations you're helping and how  you're doing it.

Yeah, would love to. First of all, thank  you for having me here today and good  morning everyone. So, my name is Tim.  I'm one of the co-founders of Third Way  Health and  we are a  end-to-end  tech-enabled operating platform and we  support medical practices, all  specialties really,  from primary care over dermatology,  endocrinology, gastroenterology, you  name it.

We also have the the the honor  to work with Graybill for and and the  previous organization that which Jamie  was part of before she went to her first  Divesture  for over 2 years now. So, we were also  there during the  during the cyber attack which was a lot  of fun if you were a tech organization,  you can imagine how how difficult that  can be.

So, what do we do? So, we  take over front office operations for  medical practices end-to-end. So, we  support  medical practices with scheduling,  intake, care navigation, referral  management, prior authorizations.  Everything  that is needed to get the patient into  the practice and  give them the the  give them access to the care that  they're looking for.

We do this  through a combination of uh, a  technology platform that we build, um,  and and AI, but, uh, we're also have,  uh, a services model that we use to  manage a lot of the manual processes  that, uh, technology cannot handle yet,  and that came also in very handy during  the the cyber attack.

So, we were still  supporting, uh, Jamie and her team by  taking phone calls, writing down  patient's name, and we're trying to  support the, uh, the the organization as  best as we could.  All right, fantastic. Um, so, let's  let's dive in a bit to like, what is  happening now at the coalface in the  organizations using these tools.

Um, you  mentioned access, Jamie.  Um,  uh, I don't know how much of any of what  you're doing is virtual. Obviously, all  of what Equips doing is virtual. Um, I'm  hearing a lot from different  organizations in primary care and  specialty care about integrating primary  and specialty care using a combination  of virtual and AI.

I'd love to hear from  both of you two a little bit. What's the  state-of-the-art today if you are  working at Graybill or working at  Equipp? What are you as a frontline, uh,  practitioner, uh, psychologist,  whatever, what are you actually doing?  So.  Yeah, so from the primary primary care  setting, you know, there's a lot of  downstream with access and patients  being able to get in to see a specialist  takes months, and so they take on the  burden of providing that type of care to  the patients, and so we've tried to  

adopt technologies that support them in  that and relieve, like I said, a lot of  the administrative burden, and so part  of their success is having all of the  information they need ahead of time to  be able to walk in and make those  medical decisions that need they need to  to support the patients.  Um, so we've adopted some technology  that kind of basically tees up the, uh,  clinical information for the provider,  summarizes the patient's care, um, and  so they don't have to go searching for a  piece of paper that's in a fax queue

that no one scanned into the medical  record yet. But then the secondary thing  is, you know, they've become vastly  dependent on the ambient scribes, and so  when that system goes down, it's quite  frantic and it's like when Claude goes  down for me almost. So, it's it's kind  of comical in that regard.

Um but then  from the patient-facing perspective,  we've adopted an AI um agent through  Third Way that basically handles the  patient's phone call from like, "What  are your hours of operation? Can I  schedule an appointment? Uh can you get  a message to my provider?" Um but we're  really trying to do that responsibly,  too, because this is new.

Um and so  that's where being able to partner with  a team that is using a hybrid model, um  we feel a lot more comfortable with, but  then also uh they've just become an  extension of our our operations overall.  And so that's how we're really trying to  manage all of that with the current  environment that we're in.  So, you said three things there.

One is  that a patient outreach, patient  engagement has moved to what you're  doing with Third Way. So, is that mostly  voice-based or is there a combination of  voice and text? How do patients  approach that? Is that voice and text?  And perhaps perhaps you can both answer  that one, Tim.  Yeah. Um so, voice and text.

Um we also  have the human piece of that still  because um healthcare is very  human-based. So, uh I think that's where  Third Way's been a great partner in  being able to adopt that because not  only are we now able to answer our phone  calls, 85% of them, in less than 20  seconds, and that's consistent because  you have a a bot doing that.

Um we still  are able to kind of do that outreach and  get patients in for to meet those kind  of quality outcomes that uh we were  talking about earlier in the panel.  Yeah, I I've seen a lot of people  working on uh outbound calls recruiting  patients to the programs and more and  more of that that happening in in in the  voice space.

Um what just to go back to  85%, you know, now being reached and and  then what was the number before?  Um so, don't shoot me on this, but it  was a 45-minute average hold time in our  call center, and I've worked with uh  Greybill for 10 years, and literally we  have tried every single model that we  could to get that number down, um but  between  uh offshore labor now with third way and  AI, uh we've been able to see the fruits  of our labor and get that to a point  where patients are having a really  positive experience.

Yeah, 45 minutes to 20 seconds is pretty  good move, yes, I I'd say that. You  mentioned two other things, and I'm  actually going to go to you on this one,  Erin. One is ambient scribing and one is  summarization, and those are probably  the two big bugbears, right? What is  going on with the patient coming in  front of me as a as a as a provider, as  a clinician, and then, you know, what  what I need to know about them, and then  how am I tracking what I what is  happening in that appointment, in that  in that meeting. So, 

how are you working  with that at Equip?  Yeah, and it's it's tracking, but also  reminding the clinician what they need  to do. Our clinicians, most of us are  exhausted, and then you get to work and  you're exhausted, and you see patient  after patient, and it's very easy,  particularly in therapy, to slip into  being a feel-good therapist. I could  talk to you for 50 minutes about  anything, and you'll walk away being  like, "That felt good. Erin's really  nice." That is not the same as helping  you get better. And that has been  something that's consistently broken in  behavioral health is that if you don't  get better, if you have a rash and you  go to your dermatologist and it doesn't  get better, you ask for a different

medication, or you get a second opinion.  But if you don't get better from your  depression, your PTSD, your eating  disorder, you think, "I am permanently  broke." But no, you just had a really  nice person sitting and talking to you  50 minutes and not providing an  intervention. So, what we're using the  technology for is to remind the  clinicians, "Where are we at in this  person's treatment journey? Okay, we are  in phase two of CBT-E, we are in session  three.

You're These are things that  you're supposed to be challenging them  on." Reminding them, like, "Okay, great,  you've checked in on how they're feeling  about graduation for 8 minutes. Let's  get into the meat of why they're here,  which is are they still binging and how  often is it happening? What skills have  they used? Uh so, that is what I think  I'm most excited about and I actually  shadowed one of our therapists yesterday  during her sessions and talked to her  after and she said she's like I I  and she'd been in a really 

successful  private practice for 10 years. I'm like,  "What made you come to Equip?" She's  like, "I wanted to start learning and I  didn't realize how much just kind of  feel-good talking I was doing." She's  like, "It's harder doing evidence-based  treatment, but it's really really  rewarding and it's made easier by the  technology."  So, for the actual experience of the  therapist, you're sitting there, you're  looking at your screen, you've got the  patient um on one part of the screen as  you're talking to him or her, and then  what are they actually How are they  getting prompted? I mean, is it the the  the the hand computer the robot hand  [clears throat] coming out and slapping  them and saying you didn't do this?  What actually happens?  I know she's saying.

Um well, and this is where I think  virtual care is not just taking what you  do in four walls and bringing it onto  Zoom. And I think that's a mistake a lot  of people made during the pandemic. Most  therapists would say, "Oh, I'm doing  therapy with my patient's forehead."  Right? The teenagers are like, "What?  I'm fine.

" Right? But no, this is a  completely different modality. Ask them  to pick up their screen and show you  their room. Ask them to take you to  their pantry and show you the food. This  is when you see like, "Oh, the whole  family is in chaos. This isn't just  about the kiddo." So, to that end, it's  very easy for us on our in our software  to see the patient and then have the  side panel of what you need to do, where  you're at in treatment.

That would be a  little bit harder in a traditional room  where you'd be kind of looking at a  computer screen, looking at them,  looking at a screen, looking at them. Um  but this way we can have it all in one  screen.  So, are you Is the AI good enough yet  that you're kind of  prompting them with things like, "Okay,  you're seeing stuff in the fridge.

" Is  it like change the the the the  Obviously, a therapist would have a  question or would would go to the next  stage of that. Is the AI prompting that  yet or not quite?  Um  So I mean, would it say  there. I mean, a big part of what we did  is we had to train We We are not relying  on anyone else's language models.

We'd  had tens of thousands of hours of  recorded sessions. We've been grading  our sessions for fidelity to the model.  This is published literature and  published um manuals. So, we made our  own model using our own data and then  the published literature.  Uh there was eating disorders and AI  were in the news I don't know maybe 4  years ago about a eating disorder AI bot  giving eating um diet advice to patients  with eating disorders.

And um it was  really unfortunate the way that that all  went for many reasons because I think an  AI bot can be helpful sometimes, but if  you train it on the internet, you're  going to get diet advice.  We're going to get to By the end of this  session, you know, what does a robot  completely do without without the human  in the loop and and how does that work  doing? I think mental health is a  particularly fascinating area because  there's both legislation and regulation  about it happening.

There's also a bunch  of really interesting things happening.  Not Not to mention 35 million people  using ChatGPT in close to their  therapist anyway. So, we'll get to that  in a second. I'd love to hear um Jamie  from you,  how do you integrate physical and  virtual in your current practice  because, you know,  there are a lot of things you can do  virtual, but there are a lot of things  you can't do.

And uh you know, when you  already you have the bricks and mortar,  how do How do you think about this?  Yeah, I I think about 20% of our visits  are probably held via telehealth.  Obviously, there's never going to be a  scenario where that's 100%, especially  in primary care. Um general surgeries  had a really low adoption because they  actually have to physically touch the  patient, but I think it's given the  physicians a little bit more 

like  work-life balance, too, because they're  seeing those patients from their home  sometimes versus coming into the office.  Um so, it's helped us operationally,  helped them still continue see to see  the patients in a certain extent um via  those virtual settings.  When they're seeing a patient virtually,  is there a difference? I mean, is it  literally, you know, as Erin just said,  you're seeing someone zoom, you're  seeing something somebody in in  in real life. Is there a significant  difference? Are they getting things  information similar to the way Erin  mentioned virtually they're not getting

in real life? What kind of tools are you  giving them that they can't they don't  have in the in the exam room?  Yeah, I mean, I think again, it it's a  little bit different in the primary care  setting because they're doing physical  exams and things like that. I think  we've had a lot of practice with that.  COVID was a huge driver of that change.

And so now  developing the workflows that they have  is pretty pretty seamless. And so they  really don't notice a difference between  like an a virtual visit or a a visit in  the office. These are conversations that  are had and simple things like a UTI or  things that you you don't really need to  come in for can be handled through the  that virtual care.

So it's really helped  in those scenarios.  Okay.  So Tim,  go down the list of other technologies  that you're working on that you're  seeing rolling out adopting amongst your  client group. I mean, obviously you you  you mentioned  we mentioned the access in the voice  sort of communication, but there's a  whole bunch of other things that are  happening.

Give me a give me a sense about what  Thirdway is working on and what you  know, where you think you're going next  as AI particularly is developing so  quickly.  Yeah, that's a great question. Thank  you. So I mean, we we at Thirdway,  right? What  our business model from day one was,  right? That we knew, okay, we can  solve certain  workflows that we take over  including the ones I mentioned earlier,  scheduling, inbound outbound telephony  through technology from day one.

All right, that's the the the AI voice  bot that Jamie mentioned that we have  launched.  And that's taking a good amount of of  calls already.  And the next layer of AI agents that  we're building is some of the underlying  processes and and auxiliary processes,  so referral management, prior  authorizations, medical records  management.

Ultimately, AI can handle  all these processes already. And I think  I think what's important though is and I  think where our model is is is is also  somewhat unique is that  by us taking over all the workflows,  including  the ones that have to be done manually,  and the underlying data infrastructure  and and operating infrastructure  between these these these different  processes, we were able to train our our  models in a very unique way.

I think  again, today AI can can handle almost  any any process, but it's it's these  processes that are somewhat somewhat not  able to be automated yet that we then  handle manually, so our team in in in  Colombia that's offshore.  All right, I'm going to tell you an  example about a patient I know very  well, me. Um  I happen to have a I mentioned my knee,  which is a I had to you earlier,  [laughter] but I I also have a a heart  thing going on.

When you get old, you  start falling apart. I would highly  recommend you don't get old. Um  but uh  you know, my primary care doctor said to  me, "Oh, you know, you have a He's This  is a physical primary care doctor I go  see. He says, "You have a heart murmur.  You have it. You've had one ever since  I've seen you for the last 15 years.

You should probably go get get an  echocardiogram and get it checked out."  So,  typical patient experience, there is a  referral from the I can see you there's  One Medical they have a fairly nice  interface. I can see the referral. It  tells me who to call. I call the number.  They say, "We haven't got the referral.

"  I say, "Yes, you have. I can see it."  Okay, call back 2 weeks later. "We  haven't got the referral."  [laughter]  Okay, I call One Medical say or message  One Medical and say, "Please, can you  give them the referral again?" They do  it again.  Third time I finally get ahold of the  imaging center, it's been sent to  they say, you know, we haven't got it.

And I say, look, I will email it to you.  So, I get passed around three different  people.  Eventually, the third one says, yeah,  here's an email address. And I actually  download the PDF. I email it to him. The  guy goes, oh, yes, I've got the thing.  Oh, this is not for imaging. This is a  cardiology imaging.

By the way, this is  in Marine. It's in the same physical  building. The building's about the size  of this room. And you put it in you It's  a different number, different  department, whatever.  So, eventually, I I I I get transferred  over there. And they they come back and  say, well, of course, we can't get an  email.

We can only get a fax because  emails are HIPAA violation, which is of  course not true.  So,  most people we talked about access in 45  minutes and all. Most people would now  would have given up. Eventually, I I do  the thing where I download the fax the  you know, the the free fax service. And  of course, yes, I get to get charged 12  bucks a month for the next 6 months  before I remember to check my credit  card bill, you know.

All this kind of you know  And I'm bloody-minded. And I And I have  a blog, so I write this all up, you  know. So, it's kind of entertainment to  me. I I I view this as content creation.  [laughter]  But um you know, most people would get  very dispirited. And it turns out, by  the way, my echocardiogram, I do have  aortic stenosis.

And I need to need to  deal with it. And there's a bunch of  problems. And I might not have found  out. And maybe I'll be fine. Maybe I'll  die of something else. But But you know,  this these things clearly lead to  clinical outcomes because of the  administrative hassle. So,  this gets to I mean, my biggest bugbear.  I want to go down the line and start  with you, Tim, and then come back to  Jamie is that how do you figure out the  fact that you mentioned referral  management? And this is a classic case  of referral 

getting screwed up because  nobody's really in charge here. The  primary care doctor is fobbing off to  another organization. They're both  getting paid separately. There's nobody  overseeing you other than you.  How is technology going to fix the  problem I had? And by the way, this  problem was not in the dark ages. This  was last September. So, [laughter]  tell me how we how we're going to use AI  and the tools that companies like Sol  were  developing to fix this issue?  So the way we approach this is that we  have built one centralized  layer that centralized many different

like technologies in one central system,  right? So if we look at  at Grable and how we're supporting Jamie  and team, right?  We have probably replaced three to four  different vendors, right? If you think  about  scheduling tools, texting tools,  the we or have an inbuilt CRM system  talking about like knowing the patient,  right? And being able to to talk to the  patient at the point of of of of when  they call and when they need care.

So I think that is that in itself is  solving part of the problem, right?  Because now you don't have all these  different systems and vendors and tools  trying to talk to each other and we all  know how much interoperability is a  problem in in health care, but  everything is centralized and  streamlined through one platform, right?  And that also makes it then much easier,  right? To put AI on top of it.

So again,  AI is is wonderful, but if you can't  solve the interoperability problem,  right? In the underlying data  infrastructure issue, then  the the bot will also be able to handle  the referral or the the prior offs more  effectively than what you experience. So  our solution to that is to centralize it  in one platform and streamline the  underlying infrastructure so that the  process and workflow in itself is  redesigned and then we put AI on top of  that.

So Jamie, how would you fix my problem?  Um using Tim's platform and then the  nice thing about that is, you know, when  we're looking at the geographic area we  serve, he's approaching those those  organizations as well and they're  adopting the technology. And so if you  use Epic as an example in North County,  most of the organizations are on Epic.

I  foresee most organizations eventually  being on a same type of AI platform  where there is that type of  interoperability so then you don't see  that fall out.  And is Greybill in So, take my case. I  felt no one was in charge of me. I mean,  there was a referral.  It was kind of followed up on  blacksodically by by my primary care  doctor.

Despite the fact that I was worth a lot  of money, I think it was a 2,000 3 to  4,000 dollar payment that got made for  the echocardiogram. They could have  missed that by saying, well, you know,  you don't have a fax machine, give up.  They don't seem very the specialty care  didn't seem very motivated.

How how But,  also there's a clinical issue going on  here, right? So, how do you  Where do you think the responsibility  lies in that area and how you know how  do you fix it?  Well, the the responsibility tends to  fall on primary care because they are  really that longitudinal care provider  and they're being asked to be this  gatekeeper for the patient.

Um, but I  think like between specialists and  primary care, they really need to work  together  using the technology because from our  point the leverage is like, hey, you  know, our patients are falling through  the cracks when we refer them to you.  We've adopted this technology, you  should consider it too or we'll really  send our business elsewhere.

And so  that's really kind of what it comes down  to when you're looking at it from that  perspective.  Um, Aaron, of course, you're at the  other end of this, right? Because people  get referred out to you somehow. Um,  how are you integrating back and forth  and and once somebody goes to to to  Equip, if they're coming back out and  going to their primary care, what  happens next?  Uh, yes, at least half of our patients  come via primary care and the biggest  gift we can give the physician is to  

stop thinking about the patient. What  used to happen is you'd give them a list  of potential places they could go. The  parent would call all of those places.  They'd find out that they're only cash  pay or they have a six-month wait list  and then they end up pinging the  pediatrician again a couple weeks later  and that goes on and on and on. And so  for us, it's let's close the loop and  let the pediatrician know they don't  need to worry about them anymore.  All right. Um we only have a few minutes  left here and I and I want to um to to  to whine about the state of primary care  and the disorganization.  I think we have the technology that can  can help with this. Um

we can argue back and forth about  whether we're going to get the payment  change. If you're interested in this,  I've written a couple of pieces. One's  called What's wrong with primary care?  Another one is called Concierge Care for  All. And I'm actually about to start a  podcast on the called Concierge Care for  All which which you guys are all going  to be dragged into whether way sorry  whether you like it or not.

Um but  really examining that there is a lot of  innovation going on using technology but  also using different types of  integration with primary and specialty  care which should solve some of these  problems. All right. Let's go out 5  years. Let's say this AI stuff works.  Let's say SpaceX actually has an IPO  that doesn't crater the whole of the  stock market and the American economy.

Maybe maybe not. Um we're doing more RPM  or Oura Ring started it was going to uh  IPO IPO yesterday. You know, we we we  have a lot of technology to help us.  We're still spending way too much money  on health care but we have a lot of  money we can redistribute. And we have a  lot of government programs.

We have the  new access program and uh some the SEO  reach program and other things which are  which are starting to change. Did I say  SEO? No, SEO reach is now with team. I  forget what it's called. Where we're  trying to look at different ways of  paying for health care not just doing  fee for service and sort of not worrying  about it.

What do you think primary care and  primary specialty care looks like in 5  years time. I don't want to go to 20  years time because I'll be dead.  But in 5 years time. So, give me a  sense, Jamie, what you think not like  next year but in 2030, 2031, 2032. What  what's the experience going to be like  for patients and for clinicians? And we  only have You get 2 minutes each on  this.

All right.  Um so, I think from the clinician  standpoint, they walk in and to the room  and they can truly provide the patient  with care. They don't have to worry  about the background noise of where's  this medical record, oh you didn't get  through on the phones in 45 minutes.  They're truly there to see the patient.

As we shift to  more value-based care models, higher  focus on population health and so on and  so forth with incentive payments, I  think that the physicians are going to  need support in looking at that because  data varies by payer, too. Medicare has  a different set of rules than the  commercial payers and how we report that  and I think technology is going to have  to be implemented to support them in  that capacity and adopted quickly.

And then I think if we end up like  staying in this state of oh, let's pilot  things, we really haven't done our job.  And unfortunately, I think because of  physician burnout and what they've  experienced with  you know, patients becoming chronically  more ill and the idea that it's  extremely hard for patients, we're going  to see physicians continue to exit the  healthcare industry and you know, that's  one of the biggest things that kind of  keeps me up at night is how do we keep  these physicians 

in the practice of  medicine but truly enjoying it.  I didn't hear you say AI autonomously  running  remote care management of chronically  ill people at home. I still had you talk  about visits with the doctors and the  rest of it. So, you're you're you're not  quite the you're not quite the fancy  future that I I might hope to be. But  you you're probably right. Aaron,  especially care.  I want to say something about behavioral  health. So, in non-behavioral health,  you pay a cardiologist a different  amount to spend 15 minutes to check up

with their patient than you pay a  primary care provider. But in behavioral  health, if you spend an hour talking  with someone about how they miss their  girlfriend who's studying abroad, you  get paid the exact same as if you're  working for 50 minutes with a highly  suicidal patient with schizophrenia and  an eating disorder.

And so, my Maybe  this is a hope, but what I hope 5 years  out is that we are paying people based  on both the diagnosis they're treating  in behavioral health, but also the  modality of care they're using. And up  until now, there wasn't a way for payers  to know, what are you actually talking  about behind closed doors? You could  just be being a super friendly Erin  therapist for 50 minutes.

Or you could  be following CBTE or  CPT or any of the alphabet soup of  evidence-based treatments that we have  for conditions. And AI is allowing us to  now record sessions and grade them for  fidelity to the model. That's what we're  doing at Equip, and we're showing it to  payers like, "Look at, we can prove that  we're doing evidence-based treatment  both with our outcomes, but you can also  see what we're doing in the room.

Okay. Percentage of therapy done by  robots compared to humans in 5 years is?  You have  higher than any of us think it's going  to be. Um and I don't think it's  necessarily that it's going to be being  paid by anyone. I think right now  therapy is being done  by chat GPT for free in the free chat  GPT  I don't know Look at my technology  skills here.

Just on that the free  AI  bots that are out right now are already  being therapists to patients around the  globe.  I'm with you. We have to figure out a  way to adopt to that because it's  happening already. Tim, uh almost lost  word. What do you think is the the you  know, if you have to predict the future  of your company, what's the big thing  you're going to be providing in in uh 5  years' time?  Yeah.

Um so, I I agree with what Jamie said,  right? I think so and  I think mostly front office and back  office processes will run autonomously,  right? I think if you would ask me for a  percentage, I would say 70-80%  autonomously. I think the remaining  20-30% still has to be done manually  because as long as you have a human in  the mix, which in this case will be the  provider physician on on on site, right?  There's  there's a risk that there's going to be  a breakdown in the process, 

and then you  need someone to fix this, right? So,  mostly autonomous. Um that's the best  case scenario. Patients can call anytime  of the day. They will get through  instantly, can book an appointment  anytime of the day, no problem. And  physician burnout goes down because  referrals, prior authorizations all  managed by  AI agents.  I think worst case scenario is  to  build on and say a little bit more about  what Jamie was was saying is that there  is a bunch of AI point solutions poorly  integrated, right? And the problem is  just shifting, right? So now you have a  bunch of forward deployed engineers that

are trying to fix the the agents. You  have integration specialists that need  to fix the the data, making sure that  the pipes are are working. That's the  worst case scenario. But I'm optimistic  and it's what we're working on, right?  That we get close very close to  autonomously running the front office  for medical practices so that providers  can focus on the on the patient and  provide care.

Great. I think um  and we're out of time, but I will I will  say one word. Well, Matt here from  Akido, Akido Labs has built a system of  AI clinical  basically models. Somewhat similar to  hear that ChatGPT is passing all these  different exams of and can now diagnose.  Well, they built 26 specialty models,  now sending out community health workers  into the field dealing with, you know,  unhoused populations or or very, you  know, very sick people.

Um and they are using, you know, really  upskilling uh  really upskilling, you know, basically  very lowly trained people. I think  you're going to see a ton more of that  type of thing because by definition we  don't have enough highly skilled  providers. We don't have enough  therapists. As Jamie said, a lot of  people are saying, "Screw this.

I'm  going to retire. It's too much like hard  work."  Um and I think that that's going to be a  a big change we're going to see in the  next  5 or so years.  The problem is it's American health  care. It's not going to be done  systematically. We're not going to put  everyone on one system. We're not going  to figure out, okay, who is in charge of  managing Matthew's transition from  primary care to specialty care to to to  hospital.

And it's going to be messy, and and  we're still going to spend a lot of time  screwing around doing that. And  unfortunately, that's going to be the  way until until 20 until I'm dead. But I  think there's a ton of possibilities  using the technology. And we are being  signed off here, so I want to thank  [laughter]  Tim,  Aaron, and Jamie for their time.

Thank  you all for listening, and you can find  all the  I hope you can you can look at all the  different  You can find them online at the Speaks  thing. You can look at all the different  companies. You can find me on LinkedIn  on the Healthcare Blog. And thanks for  your time, and thanks for your  attention.