Title: Ian Shakil, Chief Strategy Officer, Commure
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=z1gPje6mQ3c
Language: en
Duration: 18:14
Upload Date: Mar 26, 2026

Transcription:


Matthew Holt healthcare blog here with   Ian Shil. Ian is these days the chief   strategy officer of Kimu once upon a   time the founder and CEO of Medics which   is now part of Kimu as are a bunch of   other organizations. So uh let's start   with the real basics. Ian I did talk to   TA your boss about this a year ago but   but stuff has changed.

 what is in comma   these days?   >> Yeah, so Kimu is a leading AI platform   for providers and some of the most uh   exciting and and um utilized parts of   our platform are our ambient AI solution   as well as our AI RCM solution and a   number of agents. So, if you're not   familiar, ambient AI is a it's a   technology that allows doctors and   clinicians to have natural conversations   with their patients like we're naturally   conversing right now and they can trust   that technology will turn that   conversation into structured notes and   documentation in the EHR so the doctor   can focus on what matters most care the   patient being Sherlock Holmes that's   widely adopted from within the cure cure   suite and stack um and of course AI RCM   is a huge proposition widely adopted is   a   part part of what we do involving end   toend RCM as well as individual   components such as autonomous coding   denials claims you know getting much

  needed help and relief to the back   office the RCM portions of health   systems which are just struggling to   maintain efficiencies um also part of   our suite now um a variety of front   office agents which include capabilities   like AI intake scheduling voice   scheduling as well as back office agents   helping with RCM tasks following up with   patients and the like.

 Um we also have a   really exciting patient engagement   platform um that's widely adopted as   well. All of this on one platform which   is a big differentiator for um that   means one relationship, one contract,   one EHR integration, one responsible AI   committee. So if you choose us for all   or some of the things I just mentioned,   you don't have to have a dozen different   point solution vendors, a dozen   different integrations, per user per   month piece stacking out of the door   that you cannot pay for.

 you can get a   much more rational partner that can make   things streamlined for you.   >> All right. So, one of the one of the uh   things that is well known about Cumir is   it's grown by acquisition.   >> Um obviously um today you came in for an   acquisition today came in rather   obviously lot of chopping and changing   on on what was there.

 Um you said it's   all on one platform. Have you had to   like start again and rearchitect the   whole thing to get it all on one   platform? How does that how does taking   those different pieces and putting them   on one platform actually work? I mean   nothing in this world is easy. Um but   like for example a big part of what we   do um are for example deep integrations   with EHR.

 So like in particular we're   very deep with met and you know all   those different pieces that I just told   you leverage like a standard very robust   metate hook that we've built and it's   effectively a service for our entire   company. Um so just a tremendous   advantage for us to be able to leverage   that. Tremendous advantage for our   customers and health systems that don't   want to have to keep doing eh   integrations for each and every feature   and capability.

 That's just one example   of like synergy made possible through   sort of platformizing and bringing these   companies together. Another example   would be just sort of AI orchestration.   So, um, we do a lot of different AI   ensembles regarding speech recognition   at speech to text, text to speech, um,   LLM, search and summarization, you name   it, across all of our products.

 And we   kind of centralize these functions in   commir and power um, all the, um,   constituent modules in a very   synergistic way, which has, you know,   scale advantages and other advantages.   It is not easy. Um, first of all, we   don't only grow through acquisition. We   do a lot of organic R&D. We have   hundreds of um engineers mostly in the   Bay Area constantly building and   evolving.

 So um that complements our M&A   and so when we do acquire like Augmetics   whereas I came from um we replatform the   integration pieces the LLM speech to   text text to speech generative AI   ensembles to go into the core um and we   slowly reskin things so that it's sort   of um brand and look and feel UI UX and   now that you know makes our platform   possible.

 So philosophically and I wrote   about this about a year and a half ago.   um everyone you mentioned right so   Metitech also has a relationship with   Google and they do some AI stuff I   understand and then you know when you   are talking to a potential prospective   client everyone here on the show floor   everyone has got AI this AI that AI and   the other right   >> and there's a question as to how much   are the big LM platforms the open AI and   the clouds and the Google and the   Geminis going to do how much is going to   come out of the EMRs themselves the   epics the metatex you know how much is   there an interstitial play for you like   a a sort of unifi like community versus   the individual point solutions   everyone's got their point of view at   some point someone's got to buy   something and and do business right   >> so how does that conversation go how do   you go   >> here's where we are going to manage to   start and where metex   epic is not going to get to and you know   Google is not 
going to help you how how   do you how do you I I I think this is a

  one of the most like hot discussions   happening all over the place this this   week in Vegas right now and it's kind of   this like arm wrestle between the   incumbents the EHR information systems   systems of record it's the frontier labs   it's the hyperscalers it's the Silicon   Valley like everyone's like having this   like turf fight where where do where is   there a plateau on which to live um you   know our perspective is that you know we   are here to augment EHRs and in   particular for provider groups who think   a little bit beyond the horizon like   their strategies strategy is not merely   Judy's strategy. They want to have   capabilities running a little bit ahead   of what their EHR release cadence is or   what they're willing to do   technologically,   economically. They don't want to just be   simply subject to what is happening in   their EHR at any given moment. if you   want um an AI partner to kind of be um   keeping you faster on the frontier but

  still keeping your clinicians in   workflow as regards to you know more   frontier ambient AI agent capabilities   AI RCM capabilities we come into a an   HCA or a tenant or a common spirit and   and we offer these sort of services and   do much offer a lot them a lot better   faster and more economically um than   what your metacar epic will release and   yes they are releasing basic tier one AI   scribes um and other solutions like what   I just mentioned.

 So there's this   constant rat race. I think you know   maybe that's a good thing. Um I kind of   like think of it as like Microsoft Word   and when Word released spellch check you   know more than a decade ago I guess all   the spellch check companies went out of   business. So it's incumbent on us to   build like Grammarly or they always be   building the next thing so as to sort of   justify our existence.

 So for health   systems that kind of think above their   transactional system want to move   faster, want to move their in their own   way economically and otherwise we we are   their suite and partner to make that   happen. I think there's a big place for   us there. So a lot of that sounds   something I've heard from you guys about   forward deployed engineers and helping   customers obviously something that   Palunteer is famous for doing apart from   you know spying for ice whatever else   they get up to um how does that actually   practically work so there are a bunch of   comm people sitting at HCA who are doing   what? Oh yeah. I mean I think I mean   the the key another key word that you   constantly hear um at Vegas this week is   utilization. Like wonderful demos deploy   it. How many clinicians actually use it   every day? And for a lot of these booths   and companies out there numbers not so   good. Like really great demo shiny   piloteers saying right things for press   release but then adoption 
is not there

  at scale. And if you ask why, if you   investigate why, it's because there's   little workflow things unique to that   health system that the AI output just   didn't get right or particular   preferences or steps or outputs and   things. These don't require like   fundamental rearchitecting of the   product.

 But if you deploy customization   for deployed engineering to understand   those workflows, um you can get you know   ambient AI adoption from sort of an   throw it over the wall out of the box   15% to an 80% plus if you capture note   preferences and you know put the after   visit summaries the way it's done over   here and you create the needed   separation between the way the orthopods   want it and the oncologists want it.

 um   there should be a different team working   on a different cadence and rhythm doing   that kind of forward deployed   engineering that's somewhat separate   from the product team and um I I think   it's a powerful capability we have we're   big enough to have it and it's a big   differentiator for us   >> right um let's have some fun in games uh   our friend Serge   I'm has been writing some stuff out I'm   I'm a bit baffled at the last the last   one but um how how does it uh how does   it feel TO BE FAMOUS   I LIKE THAT. I honestly like minimally   read over this piece and um I there's   certainly some discrepancies in there   and like our our party line is not to   comment on um you know discrepant pieces   but if there's anything specific about   the company or that you read I'm happy   >> I think you know it's he he he's fun to   read and uh you know he has he has his   beef with hey Monteneer and General   Catalyst but I think there are two

  things going right one is um you know   the question which you've kind of   preached about the integration between   the different parts and and uh how that   started. You said that the other one I   think is the sort of the general   strategy of commute within general   catalyst and particularly around the uh   the health system in Ohio that's name   they might now escape me with you in   terms of you know rolling this out and   testing new new devices now   is that something that you guys are   currently part of obviously. Absolutely.   Yeah. I mean,   you know, make what you will of Haymon   and his ambitions and where he invests,   but you you can't fault him not for   being bold and long-term and deploying a   lot of capital to affect change. And,   you know, back to our prior discussion   about disruption and creating innovation   outside of the pacing of the legacy   transactional systems. Um, you know,   we're trusting on folks like Haymont to   do that sort of funding and disruption.   otherwise we
'll just simply be working

  at the pace of five big companies out   there. So I'm I'm really glad that he's   making these big bets um like he's   currently doing.   >> Um you know you're touching on a couple   interesting topics. Um so you're you're   aware that uh SUMA health in Ohio which   is very material health system there um   is is now you know operated under the   general catalyst and hatco banner and   there's been some releases on that   recently and we're going to do some more   storytelling and unveiling about um what   the strategy is there but I can assure   you of a number of things um there's all   sorts of um overview and oversight   boards to ensure that you know with a   transition of ownership um you know the   community the local community is being   heard and given opportunities to speak   um that all innovations and testings and   and AI deployments are being subject to   sort of safety and you know ethical

  scrutiny so everything I've seen um   certainly passes any test that I have   >> but you guys is a big part of what's   going on within FEMA right   >> so so what general catalyst has been   doing will be doing is working to um you   know rapid deploy kind of disrupted   disruptive AI innovations on you know a   very   American health system with all of its   um pros and cons and um   what's interesting is you know sometimes   there's a lot of just like friction   points and and things that inhibit you   from getting to to scale um with a lot   of these Silicon Valley innovations   Um I think you know we're going to bring   to bear a number of um exciting   portfolio company um innovations there   at Suma Health and and see how we can   affect change ethical change at scale   and camure will be part of that um for   sure uh you'll be reading about some of

  our ambient AI capabilities and other AI   capabilities um there and not just cumir   will be a huge part of that um but some   of our sister companies um in the   general general catalyst ecosystem will   be deployed there and I'm very excited   about that   >> right um the last point is on the sort   of comm and the sort of the current   state of the market you know I've   already said okay what's the difference   between this and EMRS and who's playing   where um seems to me there are a few big   sort of startup companed startup   companies I'm going to kick in innov   out out there you guys seem to have done   very well with the HCA's lieutenants and   uh commerce and a few others how do you   think this plays out you think it ends   up with like everyone slices up,   everyone gets a few big systems and and   plays that way or do you think you end   up with more consolidation or do you   think there's somebody kind of like in   the EMR space where there used to be   five or six big players and now reall
y   there's one and a half, you know, maybe

  you call Oracle.   >> I mean, how how do you think this   actually plays out? We go 10 years down   the path.   >> I I mean, let's just look at the ambient   AI AI scribe part of the market. I mean,   there are like over a hundred   competitors.   >> There's only kind of four or five real   big ones.   >> Even still, there's just more than there   need to be.

  >> Yeah.   >> And and um there will be   forthright consolidation and change in   the next 12 months. Um and I actually   think that's a good thing. Um I I think   you're going to see um a fewer number of   vendor partners out there and those   vendor partners that are you know still   at scale and well capitalized will start   to sort of resemble a little bit like   what you're even hearing from um whereas   they will have not just ambient AI but   RCM capabilities and other capabilities   because um you know inevitably and   increasingly health systems just don't   want to buy a bunch of stacked up point   solutions. they just want rationalized   um you know sweeps of and platforms of   solutions that work together like what   we've done. So I think we're in the   beginning of something that you'll   continue to see. So you're going to get   a lot of these capabilities from your   EMR. You're going to get some of these   capabilities um from a smaller number of   platform partners like like Kamir. So to   
answer your question, you're going to

  see consolidation. You're going to see   fewer standalone AI scribe companies. Um   and that's a good thing. That's the   natural order of things. So last thing   and this is somewhat personal me because   I'm going through this at the moment. Um   >> seems to be a lot of the focus of AI so   far has been on the internal workflows   and obviously on the the physician   improving the physician experience.

  >> Mh.   >> Um where are we with the world of kind   of I don't you want to call it aentic AI   on behalf of patients or consumers or   whatever but I can tell you from   personal experience the current patient   experience still sucks.   >> When is that going to get the same   treatment? I mean,   >> well, there's no one care.

  >> We before we were we when we were just   chitchatting before, we were talking   about it takes 45 minutes to get to   someone to change a visit or get some   imaging done. Um, I can tell you right   now we are offering agents that do all   kinds of like scheduling assistance and   rescheduling and things of that sort,   just to name a few things.

 So I think   this year you're going to start to see   patient touching agentic solutions that   don't just be get efficiencies for the   providers but are just going to bring   delight and time savings and more   engagement from you and me as patients   and not soon enough. And even ambient AI   I mean you know it seems like it's   creating efficiencies for the doctor and   the clinician but it's also creating   better and more frequent after visit   summaries for the patients that were not   previously done. um it's creating more   attentive attentiveness   um for the patient to um have and um you   know these AI tools are I think only   beginning to benefit the patient   experience more is to come   >> when do you think that it will just to   push on that point a bit last things   when do you think that it'll be you know   necessary for a typical health system   academical center local hospital to   actually do this and because they'll be   looking so bad in comparison with some   other people who done it

  >> would you and in the Bay Area. I think   if a doctor is going to be employed in   any health system in the Bay Area, it's   become a thing like, well, what is the   you have ambient AI, right? And if you   don't, well, I'm going to go work at   that group instead of it's like the   veritable stethoscope.

 It's like, which   one am I getting? Otherwise, I'm so um I   think with certain categories of AI, in   particular, ambient AI, it's a   requirement. It's a table stakes. every   single provider group in the US today   has some form of it emerging and then I   think you know if the last 12 months was   the emergence of the AI scribe   revolution the next 12 months you're   going to see I would say an AI agent   revolution and AI RCM revolution I think   that's where the energy is going to   continue to to go   >> all right well I'm hope hopefully that   when I next call my local hostel   maybe I won't have to do it   All right.   >> I've been with I've been doing with the   inch again. He's the chief strategy of   the Thanks.




