Title: Jason Prestinario, Particle Health
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YDzuDJzIV2o
Language: en
Duration: 26:31
Upload Date: Mar 24, 2026

Transcription:

Matthew Hong have a quick GCB update at   HIMS. I'm talking here with Jason   Prestonario who is a CEO of Particle   Health, a company that's been in the   news a little bit quite a lot recently.   Funny enough, founded by a former health   diploma intern,   but now he he's out of there now. You're   in there now. I know.

 Uh he he was he um   you've been CEO for how long now? A   couple years.   >> Almost three years. May of 23.   >> May 23. All right.   >> So obviously you guys are used because   of your lawsuit against Epic. I'm sure   it but before we get there, let's start   the real basics. What does particle   health do?   >> Yeah.

 So we started right uh as an   interoperability platform. So obviously   allowing for the curation and exchange   of medical records at scale. Since then   and since really I came aboard, we've   really focused on building out our   platform and focusing on where are the   areas where we can go from as a real   data scientist at heart data to insight   to action and that action's really been   focused specifically around transitions   of care.

 Uh so we really have an AI   native care management platform that's   designed to understand when a patient's   been discharged from a hospital, what's   happened, what are the next steps that   need to be taken in order to ensure in   those moments that happen for patients   um that we can help provide the support,   the next steps necessary.

 And that's   been an area where we focused uh and   where we're really excited for 2026.   Obviously above and beyond just the core   aspect of we have a platform where you   can pull comprehensive well ststructured   easytouse medical records at scale. All   right. So, let's uh go back to that.   There is a bunch of things that people   probably don't understand.

 That's   probably Brendon Keela and then   everybody else in the world understands   this stuff essentially and I certainly   put myself into everyone else. But there   is   data   in hospitals and records. There are you   know obviously Epic has a big share of   that. There are other PAM mods that have   access to data.

 There is data in there   is claims data elsewhere. There are then   these things called Qins. There are   health information exchanges, there are   on-ramps. Can you quickly define what   these all are and where particle is in   that world?   >> Yeah. So what I would um so first and   foremost I think there is a lot of words   that get used confusion to your point.

  >> Absolutely.   >> And ultimately right let's let's take a   step back. What we're talking about here   is that regardless if you're talking   about a small mom and pop primary care   office all the way to the largest   academic medical centers in the country,   if these folks, which pretty much all of   them are at this point, are capturing   medical records in some type of   electronic format, there is the desire   and frankly the mandate to ensure that   those medical records can be shared.

 So   when we're talking about Qhins, Care   Quality, TEFLA, CMS align networks, all   of these are simply just ways to talk   about their medical records over in this   hospital over here. How can we access   them and put them to work? And so   ultimately there are uh again I won't   try to go through and explain each and   every entity here, but there are EHRs   and other types of systems that   providers have.

 those systems hold on to   medical records or some type of clinical   information. Um there are then   frameworks and means by which other   people out there can say I also am   either treating this patient or in some   instances I am the patient and I want to   be able to access my medical records. I   want to be able to use them.

 I want to   be able to understand what's happened to   this patient. And so particle is not   only a entity that helps to create one   consolidated access point for all of   those medical records at scale. We also   provide a lot of the processing and   understanding on top of those medical   records in order to make them useful and   again to go from data to insight to   action.

 So that's where we fit in that   overall ecosystem.   >> All right. Um but are you you're not   officially a a quinn?   >> We are not a quinn.   >> Okay.   Now let's talk then and then we'll start   inching towards the lawsuit the issues   that you have.   >> Um what are the typical uh use cases   where somebody would come along say I   need data for whatever reason and I want   to use particle to access it.

 What give   me some typical cases for that?   >> Yeah. So I'd say like one of the main   use cases that we're really focused on   today is um let's say that there are a   panel of patients that are uh you know   high-risisk patients that are being um   uh uh sort of cared for by you know an   atome uh home health agency right so   these are agencies that have again   high-risisk patients where nurses are on   staff to go to these uh you know members   and ensure that they are getting the   care that they need as they are working   through you know what is often just a   lot of chronic conditions a lot of   issues well the thing that can get   really difficult right is how do I know   if I'm responsible for this patient over   here which is really what we're talking   about is value based care providers   right if I'm responsible for this   patient over here and I'm responsible   for their care how do I know when   they've been to the ER how do I know   when they've been discharged from the

  hospital how do I know when their A1C   score is spiked all of those are areas   where You can pull medical records once   and great, you now have medical records.   But that doesn't mean maybe there was a   moment where they were discharged from   the hospital six months ago. That   doesn't really matter to you anymore.

 So   what we've really focused on is saying,   well, when that patient's discharged   from a hospital, how do we inform you of   what's happened? And then do a bunch of   AI processing on top to create that   understanding of what are you focused   on? What is the patient's next best   action? How do we help facilitate that   action? So that's that's that's what a   typical customer for us today would look   like and where and how we help out.

  >> Right. And and of your customers you   mentioned home health agencies or care   management organizations. Give me a   little smattering the different type of   flavors of customers you have.   >> So yeah value based care providers um uh   other types of you can call them   benefits programs you can call them   specialty risk managers.

 These are your   I'll just name a bunch right youras   verta swords hinges mavens um of the   world. um who are saying when a patient   has a particular type of condition,   we're going to step in and really help   to manage that. Uh depending on how much   you want to get into the CMS side of   things, CMS's recently announced access   program fits exactly into this mold,   right? But how do you actually know in a   CMS access program if you're one of   those companies that I mentioned who a   lot of them are our customers, how do   you know when it's time for you to   interact with that patient, right? You   need to be able to coordinate with that   primary care. But is that primary care   physician referring to you? What does   this look like? And how are you managing   when those patients go from being   totally fine and just going about their   day to suddenly right having a moment   that matters where they need that   intervention, they need that support,   that intelligence layer is what we do.   So uh

  that's going on. Um and then say a bit   about the payer aspect of this because   that is in the the laws as well.   >> Of course. What what what are you doing   with payers and you've got payers as   another customer doing that kind of   thing. Is that where where you are?   >> Of course.

 So we sit in the middle of we   are facilitating for both payers and   obviously those that are managing the   care management and I think this is one   of the things that   >> you know got very um uh lost in   translation in all these discussions   right um this wasn't particle going out   there and facilitating   uh you know treatment queries for   operations purposes this was always   particle facilitating treatment queries   for treatment but it was through   facilitation and coordination from   different health plans.

 And that's a big   thing that health plans are are starting   to do more and more is facilitating the   management and coordination of their   members care because that's the way   we're going to be able to ensure that   we're bending the cost curve and getting   the patients the treatment they need   when they want it or when they need it.

  And so that is exactly the type of   coordination that's necessary. So if you   are a payer and you have a panel of   patients and one of them starts to have   some type of issue, right? If one of   them has diagnosed with cancer as a for   instance, well what are the ways and   what is the support that that patient   needs in order to start to think about   what the next steps of their treatment   journey are? uh we're seeing more and   more innovation and again CMS's access   program is just another version of this   where these payers are saying we want to   ensure that the right programs are in   place to help to facilitate the care for   those patients and that middle layer of   being able to create that intelligence   and create the facilitation to say   because again if you take and I will use   a random name of a customer or of a of a   entity who's not our customer n right   really wellknown and and and they're   doing really great work. But if you're   not in a position where you need that um   yo
u know, if you are obviously uh not

  someone who's in uh sort of um you know,   if you're just kind of going around,   obviously if you're a man, uh you know,   you're not sort of in a position where   you need that care. Well, there   shouldn't be the push to have engagement   with maintenance, right? I don't need   mavens.

 Um and so as people progress   through their journey and they start to   become someone who needs that benefits   program, how do you facilitate that?   Right? How do you ensure that patient   patients know about these benefits   programs and can actually have them? And   obviously even from a primary care value   based care perspective, how do you know   when you need to bring a patient in for   their, you know, 7-day um uh uh sort of   um post discharge uh visit, right?   That's where there's just this   intelligence that's needed.

 So that's   where you're seeing the bridging of   value based care payers taking on more   and more ownership of the management of   these patients care and how we're really   bridging and facilitating that and that   is what right our payer platform is all   about right okay so let's talk about the   uh the legal fun and games big picture   right um   you are I believe suing epic for two   different things right one there was   there was uh initial access to the   network and you were closed off and I   don't know it was for everything or some   uh for some clients only and there were   complaints from their end or was it care   quality was them? I couldn't tell which   which of the two entities it was.   Therefore, it's obviously very closely   linked that there were individual   customers accessing on your end for not   treatment purposes. They mentioned a law   firm scanning malpractice or what I had   a look at those. It was interesting. I   wasn't sure, you know, but and there   isn't necessarily a ano
ther way to get

  there. And so maybe the word what we   call treatment gets spend a bit and then   there's the more recent one where you've   been uh uh you you're now playing   against them for what you're calling   monopoly in the pair space. So give me   from your point of view what is the the   issue in the in the lawsuits? Are there   two or one? And uh what's the state of   play now?   >> Yeah.

 So, um, there's one lawsuit, uh,   uh, Epic is now involved in a few other   lawsuits.   >> Well, they have Healthcare and they have   some fun and games in Texas,   >> which seems to be about something   completely different, which I think   we'll leave alone.   >> Yep. Uh, there's also, uh, Curus and   there's also Viva, right? So, there's   there's, I think, five now, um, that   they're involved in.

  >> Um, but ours is one there's one lawsuit.   Um, and it is a Sherman antitrust   lawsuit. Um and that lawsuit is yeah all   around um Epic trying to create   anti-competitive actions um and around   this Epic payer platform um and feeling   like they were in a position to cut off   access uh and put us in a position where   we couldn't compete, we couldn't   innovate, we couldn't continue to build   in what is an everchanging and dynamic   healthcare world.

 So the current um sort   of state of that is uh we survived   motion to dismiss. A couple claims got   thrown out but the core antirust claims   continued on. Uh and we are into   discovery. Uh so uh you know the the   next steps are obviously to you know   review lots and lots of documents on   both sides. Uh obviously get into   depositions things of that nature.

 Um   but we are continuing to march forward   and that's the that's the current state   of affairs. So going back to their   original complaint to your initial   lawsuit or I don't know if their their   rebuttal of your complaint or whatever   it was, they raised a couple of   companies including one that looked like   it was a law firm that they said was   accessing under treatment for for for   data where they were calling for for uh   for for potential malpractice victims or   well I looked into that.

 It looked like   a law firm that was actually supporting   malpractice uh people accused of   malpractice. So maybe it was helping   hospitals I I don't know and there was a   regier I think which was taking data on   behalf of payers for I forget their   exact purpose but they were doing there   were a number of different entities   right um what was the state of play with   those were they were they were epic just   wrong about what was happening there   were you were were you were people using   the particle network for reasons you   didn't understand what what was going on   there   >> yeah so uh so a couple important things   to point out here and obviously a lot of   Those actions are what then led to our   lawsuit, our Sherman antitrust. Um, so   this was obviously a sequence of events.   There's a couple things here that that I   think are important. So, first of all,   um, the two that you mentioned, right?   So, there's Revelier and then there's   uh, you know, more of a law law firm, if   you will
. Um both of them were ones

  where we had full understanding and   transparency and discussions uh not only   with care quality but also with Epic. Um   so these were not out of the blue loop.   Um these were always you know uh   connections and organizations where we   were very clear on who they were uh what   and how this was a treatment purpose of   use the diligence that had been had been   performed uh and obviously all the legal   documentation around that.

 So that was   all there was never what um the way this   was uh uh explained which actually   eventually got um   uh invalidated in that dispute   resolution. So care quality came back   and said particle is right. The way this   was explained and it gets into a lot of   technical jargon which then people kind   of don't pay attention to is epic   positioned this as particle was masking   queries   >> and saying that's the problem is that we   don't know what these queries are going   towards and we came back and   definitively proved we were following   the right technical specifications. Epic   wasn't. That's in the dispute   resolution. If you want to read the   technical jargon you can. So what you're   essentially saying is that Epic knew   this was happening and this was a smoke   screen they put up later. Why in that   case did they and Care Quality suspend   you?   >> So again, Care Quality never suspended   us.   >> Okay.   >> Um Epic stopped responding. Okay.

  >> Right. Which is absolutely information   blocking. Um but what happened was and   also when Epic was first responding to   um uh or was was first putting a dispute   out against article they only mentioned   Revelier. Okay. So these other issues   these other connections eventually got   tacked on. The issue was Revalier.

 Uh   and again uh the work that was being   done there again with you know and again   this is all very publicly known Blue   Cross Blue Shield Michigan as you   mentioned was all around again   supporting   the provider work that Blue Cross Blue   Shield was was doing with its providers.   So this was pushing out point of care   decision support to those providers at   the point of care.

 This was something   that was assessed, discussed, talked   about why that very much fits a   treatment purpose of use. And by the   way, in that dispute resolution from   Care Quality, they also said, and I   don't want to get in trouble in my exact   framing here, Care Quality would never   stamp something as treatment or not, but   they certainly did say this is certainly   not not treatment,   >> right?   >> So all of that's to say that that was   the issue.

 And then eventually it was   how can we find anything else we can   sort of toss on here to make this a real   problem? And it was because they   understood that this was again a threat   to their payer platform.   >> Okay. So how did you get from that issue   because you were uh Epic started   responding again after this. Is that am   I correct? They basically try to switch   all the particle off and they had a   discussion with you about particular   customers at your end and these lack of   mass queries or whatever the jargon is.

  But you were basically back on.   >> Correct.   >> Oh, correct. we were we were back on for   uh for all customers uh very very   quickly um and obviously because we   pointed out that uh this lack of   responding to treatment queries was   having real impacts on the treatment of   patients.   >> So then did they switch you off again or   where is the next where was the next   lawsuit from?   >> No.

 So they filed this dispute against   us.   >> Uh they did not   >> this was a care quality level correct   >> arbitration dispute. It's not a legal uh   actual civil suit in the US district   court or whatever. Right.   >> Correct. Correct. It's within this sort   of care quality framework and the rules   that are set up as you know mutual third   party beneficiaries.

  Um and so no they did not shut us back   off. Um but they proceeded to do a   series of events um which we you know   document within all our filings   including uh very explicitly telling um   certain of our connections that they   would be blocked   >> if they didn't move to someone else.   >> Uh and so there those were the series of   events and action.

  >> So these are the anti-competitive   actions that you then filed   >> that we then filed our lawsuit. So   that's so that's the state of play. But   the state of play is right now if I want   to come a particle and use your services   to get data from whomever of course   you're up and running and uh   >> 100% 100%. um helicop.

 So that's that's   where we are. Um what's the state of   what's the likely timeline of judgments   and judgment for those people who don't   read Brendan Cleer every day to figure   out you know?   >> Well, whatever is in the uh when he's   buy he's buying transcripts from court   reporters.   >> Yeah.

 Well, listen uh you know I I think   Brendan Keeler will probably have a view   on this uh you know that is is is more   educated than mine, I suppose. But um uh   the answer is we don't know. Uh you know   this is this is this is going to be a   long time coming. Uh this is probably   going to take um you know uh a while   longer and um you know it's already been   now uh almost 2 years and you know I   think we're we're probably closer to the   beginning than we are to the end.

 Um so   it's still going to take a while.   >> Okay. Uh two questions one about paron   and one about the broader issue of data   access. Obviously this had some impact   on your business otherwise you would run   a lawsuit. Um I understand the law firm   you've done this uh done this with the   name is taking this on contingency.

 Is   that true?   >> Um we are not paying for the lawsuit. I   can't comment on exactly where it   >> so uh   >> there is there is a transaction. What's   been the impact on your business of   this? Obviously some but I mean uh you   know   >> is some people said oh this is the last   throw of the dice to to keep the company   going.

 Other people are you know other   people saying   >> you're you're sitting there you're   looking in the h how is particle doing?   >> Yeah I mean I think we are continuing to   deliver fantastic products and outcomes   for both our customers and for patients   every single day. Um I think   >> have you lost a significant amount of   customers due to this? We lost some   customers obviously that's pretty   clearly stated in our uh in our lawsuit   but um I think what's happened in the   time since right of course those first   you know couple months uh particularly   after that incident there was a whole   bunch of people and I get it who would   look at us and say well gosh I don't   know like did you do something wrong um   you know a I will never forget uh right   when there was the publication uh of the   privacy and security notice that was put   out by Epic to all of its health systems   which had a very large red uh you know   issue notification. There was a article   that came out um you know that ta
lked

  about you know um uh um Epic um uh you   know clamping down on startup for   unauthorized data access. And of course   people looking at that might say well   gee I just want to understand. I think   what we've done since then is done an   incredible job of continuing to focus on   how to build trust and understanding.

  And I'd say in 2025 and now into 2026 I   think we have that trust back. I think   people know who we are and what we   represent. And you know obviously the   fact that um you know we are now seeing   plenty of other lawsuits that have come   to the forefront sort of speaks to the   fact that um you know if you kind of   look and understand uh you know hey is   is is it Particle that's doing something   wrong or or is it Epic? Uh well who's   the entity that's involved in you know   more than one lawsuit and that's Epic.   So let's uh let's hover up and it's not   just about Epic but the way I so my big   picture you know big picture uh lack of   knowledge understanding is that 10 years   ago we weren't having an argu you know   you couldn't get your data and now we're   kind of arguing over who can get your   data and this is the American way you   have lawsuits and arguments and   obviously there is um Epic is Epic and   its customers and I would uh think of   his customers as equally guilty who are   in 
general large shell systems who want   to keep the data within the data for

  their own business reasons and we can go   back and forth about that and we know   how hard it is to to move the data   around. That's one set of of settlers.   We're arguing about the right stuff. Now   the second issue is that as you   mentioned CMS has got these different   programs and they are Amy Gleason and   Chris Compton their friends are all   they're very much heading us trying to   trying to head us towards the fact that   data should be free to go across   multiple different systems and   entrepreneurs innovators you know   presumably like your customers should be   able to get access to that data and   start doing interesting stuff with it   which will hopefully help patients right   >> so um my question to question to you is   where do you think we are in the general   state of play of access to data and you   know where do you think this ends up   after all these lawsuits are done and   after all this back and forth is done.   Do you do you think we get to the point   where people can get ac
cess to data both   individually and through third parties

  working on their behalf in a much easier   fashion than we have today or you know   or are we there now and this is like the   last death row of a of a dying DYING OF   A DYING RESPONSE   >> I mean for the big empire   >> yeah I I sure I sure hope not right so   what what I would say is you know uh if   I get I get asked the question often you   know where where do I want and and   where's my hope for where   interoperability is in a year from now,   two years from now, 5 years from now and   my answer is always the same which is I   want to not talk about it right   when I was thinking about it.   >> Yeah. Right. Like because again you know   I come from a a belief and my entire   career again has been around   understanding that data in and of itself   is not useful. Right? Great. You have a   whole pile of medical records in front   of you. So what? um it's only useful in   the in it driving insights and actions   and changing decisions and and allowing   for different things to happen. And so   the reas

on I say that is because that's

  what I want to go be talking to people   about, right? Like I want to talk to   people about well how is this data being   used in new and incredible ways. I want   to talk about AI and I want to talk   about where I think AI is headed, where   I think it's going to be beneficial,   where I think potentially there's still   a long way to go.

 Like those are the   things that I find very interesting and   the data should just be accessible. So   that's kind of my my first answer in   terms of where I think we are. I also   want to go back to one of the things   that you mentioned and say, you know, I   have a lot of   um, you know, respect and empathy for   the position that a lot of providers and   health systems are in where there is a   bit of this, you know, push and pull   around obviously wanting to ensure that,   you know, data is accessible and I think   most health systems do want that while   also understanding right that um there's   a whole lot of   uh concerns around, you know, what is   and is not going to get them in trouble.   Uh and so I do think that I do just want   to mention that generally speaking, I do   have have empathy. Um however, you know,   I think you're also, you know, not wrong   in um you know, again, there's a lot of   incumbents out there that, you know,

  listen, in innovation and sort of   driving towards a new way of doing   things is always going to be something   that incumbents don't want. They're   incumbents. Uh so I think there's enough   drive and push here. The momentum   currently is incredibly strong. Uh your   point around, you know, CMS and the   actions they've taken, I think it's all   a really really strong um you know,   position we're in.

 I want to be clear,   we're not there yet. We have still have   a long way to go. We still don't think   that um even for treatment access is   where it needs to be. There's still   momentum and and and change that needs   to happen. Uh but we're on the way. Uh,   and I think every day where Particle   continues to do the work it's doing and   continues to fight for access and   democratization of data um, is a day   where we move closer to that goal.

  >> All right, that's a great little place   to leave it. I'm speaking to Jason   Preston. He's the CEO of Particle   Health. Jason, thanks for your time.   >> Thanks, Matt.


