Title: Jesse Shoplock, Inbox Health
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4SmKgKlRSE
Language: en
Duration: 9:55
Upload Date: Mar 17, 2026

Transcription:

Matthew Hawk, THCV quickbite. I'm here   with Jesse Shoplock. He is the head of   business development at uh Inbox Health,   which is in the space of I'm going to   going to screw this up. Sort of   facilitating and making it easier for   people to figure out what they owe in   healthcare and how they pay and that   kind of stuff.

  >> Jesse, was I anywhere close to being   right there?   >> Pretty close. Yeah.   >> Okay. So tell me the next two sentences   after that.   >> Yeah, sure. So, Inbox Health primarily   focuses on the patient communication and   engagement for practices to allow them   to learn about their bill, educate and   understand them the their bill and then   be able to pay uh on a on a on a more   automated and and reasonable time to the   uh practices and providers that they go   see.

  >> So, strikes me have two problems here.   First problem is that people have no   idea what they owe. they don't want to   pay it. They they're confused by   co-pays, co- insurance, yada yada yada.   And there's obviously patient billing is   a big mess in the first place. Second is   that you have a lot of uh practices   particularly practices but also   hospitals but also p you know smaller   practices and who are dealing with   smaller transaction fees who never   collect stuff that they actually are   owed either from patients and sometimes   from the insurers.   >> Um which of those two problems is the   biggest problem and where do you where   are you kind of focused? Well, let's   start with with with the first one is   patients don't know what they're paying   for. There's there's studies that show   70% of the patients out there don't   understand their bill when they get it   in the mail. First off, they're getting   it in the mail, a piece of paper that's   typically when they don't understand i
t,   they're either going to be hesitant to   pay it or they're just going to toss it.   And guess what? It's not paid. So,   that's a problem that uh most of the   practices out there and all of

  ambulatory space are are having today.   And what was the other one?   >> The second question was the other side   of this, the practice not getting paid.   How big a deal is that?   >> Yeah. So with that being said, the the   the the patient responsibility piece of   it of the revenue portfolio is around   30% mark today in some cases.

  >> So 30% of revenue for a practice is the   cash part of the co insurance or co-ay   from the patient   >> and it's not getting paid.   >> What what share of that is getting paid?   I mean of the 30%. Well, what we we're   seeing is the cost of doing business in   some of these practices and billing   environments is if they're collecting   between 10 and 20% of that, that's their   cost of doing business today.

 So, they   let the rest of it ride or get written   off.   >> So, 10 or 20 or 10% of the 30%. So, they   might be getting 3% of of their revenue   instead of 30%. So, that sounds a pretty   serious problem for the business running   up   >> very much. and and and quite honestly,   they have some of the tools in place   today to do so.

 However, their   traditional methods and practices of how   they're going back to go uh to go get   it. For example, you go see the doctor   on February 2nd and not receive a bill   till March 1st or March 2nd. So, an   entire month has gone by.   You receive a ma a statement in the   mail. So, what is this for? Why did I   even get this? Who is this doctor? I   don't remember.

 What is this? I don't   even understand this. Okay, I don't   understand it. Goes in the goes in the   trash. And that happens over and over   and over again. Next thing you as a   great, you know, paying patient, you're   not paying the bill. And then you're in   120 plus day aging bucket along with the   other 10,000 patients that are not   making a payment, which makes that uh   that collections that or the patient   collections not uh they're not able to   get it.

 So, they don't have the   necessary tools in place to do it. or   maybe it's just not the necessary   processes to do it. That's where Inbox   tries to fix and resolve some of that to   communicate, engage, simplify and   educate the patient of what they're   actually getting and why, and then give   them the ability to make a payment in   any method or channel that they really   uh have interest in doing it, whether   it's text, phone, email, chat.

 Inbox can   provide all of that. So if a biller or   practice is utilizing the inbox   platform, we're seeing increases of of   of uh I think 5x in collection speeds   and then increasing 20 30 40% of the   collection patient collections revenue   on top of that. Oh, and by the way,   they're taking they're spending half the   amount of time in actually doing all the   patient AR processes and tasks to do it   because we're automating all of that.

  So, it's a huge benefit plus cost   savings for the practice. Um, and then   they're collecting more faster and then   they're educating the patients and they   know what they're actually paying for   now.   >> So, say one more word about the   educating the patient. Um, what does   that actually mean? So, you know, you   get I mean any patient is going to be   confused because they first get a thing   from their insurance company that says   this is not a bill and it sort of tries   to say we paid this, you paid that. I   got one for my daughter yesterday. They   charged $1,000. We're paying 300. Your   share is 5255 or something, whatever.   You know, I'm going, well, they're going   to come after me for the bit that they   didn't get paid. And maybe, you know, so   that's all that and then sometimes I get   the bill from the practice, sometimes I   don't. You know, it's very laxidasical.   Um, what's the but there's both the   education, but also like getting the   communication done. So, what is the   a
ctual inbox health experience from the   patient end?   >> Well, well, first off, two things. So   the the communication piece of it   instead of waiting until the next month   or the next billing cycle to send out   the platform is set up to where these

  things are sent out like very very   quickly. So so billing cycles are   automated in a much faster pace. Right?   Along with that billing cycle going out   sooner. It's also being more of a   digital uh um uh delivery versus versus   waiting to get that piece of paper in   the mail.

 So you you automatically have   it in your device or or in your email or   in your inbox. So you can always say,   "Oh yeah, I just saw Dr. Smith there,   you know, last week." Uh here's my   method of payment. The next thing is um   educating them on what is actually   having to be paid. So like you said, you   get that EOB and they don't understand   any of that.

 But what Inbox does is they   really break down that statement and and   give a good solid explanation of what   the insurance is paid is paying, what is   the balance for the uh patient and why.   And then once they give that, it's a   little it's way easier to read and   understand. And then the being able to   give them an ability to make a payment   digitally mainly instead of waiting on   that piece of paper to send in a check   cuz it's that's it's not the way a lot   of patients are going to be wanting to   pay these days.

  >> All right. Fantastic. So fairly uh I   mean I remember Health 2.0 We ran a   contest 10 years ago called, you know, a   better a better hospital bill or a   better bill. I can't remember what it's   called. And I'm I'm not sure that   filtered through. There was HHS was all   behind in ONC and everyone was very   excited about not sure it filtered   through to most people.

 May maybe, you   know, in some kind of weird weird way   the bread comes through fell through and   that that's what Inbox Health is doing.   Um, so I think I think that's great, you   know, because I mean there's so much   confusion around this and there are   people who, you know, generally can't   afford to pay their bills of course, but   but there are obviously a lot of people   who can pay the $32 or whatever it was   requesting.

 It's just a question of, you   know, and it's better to do that than   have it end up in collections where it   becomes gets fees and becomes a big   deal. So tell me a bit about the uh how   the company is doing. Give me a bit   about the background of when it was   started. Um, how many practices you're   serving? Give me a idea of the sort of   scale of the impact you're having.

  >> Sure. Yeah, we've been around going on   12 years now. Um, a lot of growth has   been has has happened over the last lot   last last few years. We we've primarily   focused on on billing organizations, but   that's actually um a lot of focus has   now gone directly to practice.   Obviously, there's plenty of billers uh   and they do in-house billing and   practices.

 So, that's a lot of our focus   today. um we have focused a ton of on   our integrations direct with the system   of record and practice management ehr   systems that that practices are using.   So that's been a big focus of of mine   specifically. Um and then on top of that   you know our go to market strategy to   those to those uh environments or   ecosystems of those systems that uh we   have connections with.

 Uh and   integration it makes it so much better   for the actual end user. uh it automates   a lot of the practice uh uh best   practices that they're doing already   today. Uh the company is doing   exceptionally well right now. Really   excited about our our our current growth   and our our immediate future growth   that's going to be happening.

 Um gosh,   we're focused I think close to 3,800   practices today across all things   ambulatory right now. Um there's around   600 um billers that we also focus on or   that use our systems today. Uh so we've   got a pretty solid footprint. There's   probably another 30 plus systems that we   integrate today that we'll continue to   grow and uh deepen the integrations with   uh working on some strategic   partnerships along with some of these uh   systems today um that are fairly new.

 So   yeah, there's there's a lot of great   potential and uh pretty excited about   the continued growth at Inbox.   >> Okay, fantastic. And how much money have   you guys raised?   >> Oh gosh, I couldn't couldn't tell you   the exact total amount. We just went   through another small small uh series uh   round.

 Gosh, what was it?   >> I don't want on this quote.   >> I I will check it. I'll check you. I'll   get this bit cut out.   >> Okay, that is it. All right. Fant   fantastic. Give me one second of space.   >> Okay. Fantastic. Speak with Jesse Shoplo   senior. Sorry. Start again. Let's do   that bit again. As I was I was telling   you cut me. Fantastic.

 Speed with Jesse   Shoplock. He is the head of business   development at Inbox Health Self. Jesse,   thanks for your time.   >> Thank you.


