Title: Jim Gallic, Wondr Health
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sgK3y8YUILc
Language: en
Duration: 46:02
Upload Date: Jan 14, 2026

Transcription:

Hi, Matthew Al here. Another THCB   spotlight. Um, one of the one of the   very very going to be the one of the   very first ones to debut in uh in   January 2026, although we're actually   recording this just back before   Christmas. I have me with me Jim Ga. Jim   is the chief growth officer at Wonder   Health. You can see above his head.

 Um   he's in the wonder health office or has   a fancy background, one of the two. Um   Jim W is uh it's been around a while in   the in the business of helping people   with obesity, weight loss, pre-diabetes,   and all that stuff. An area that's had   incredible amount of attention in the   last few years and probably will only   get more as this problem goes on.

 And   it's also uh a journey that you yourself   have been on. So why don't you uh   introduce yourself a little bit and tell   us a little bit about how way you ran   into Wonder and uh why you liked it.   >> Yeah, for sure. Thanks Matthew for   having us. Appreciate it. So Wonder   Health has been the leader for the last   16 years in the cardioabolic space   primarily focusing on weight management   issues.

 I was actually introduced to   Wonder Health about 12 13 years ago. uh   my doctor who now remember I'm from New   Jersey so we can talk pretty abrupt with   each other but my doctor pulled me aside   at our annual physical and said hey what   color casket do you want and it was a   wakeup call that I needed because I was   not really handling myself the way I   should be.

 My employer at that time was   offering Wonder Health. And so, uh, I   came into the program a little bit   reluctantly because for years I had   tried to manage my own weight. And I had   did every imaginable weight cutting,   diet, macro counting, take pictures of   food, things that you could possibly   imagine without really great success.

  But I learned through the program that   it wasn't an issue of just diet and   exercise and it was more about my   relationship with my food and how I was   kind of treating myself. Uh as a result   of working with the Wonder Health team   in a span of about six to seven months I   lost nearly 50 pounds, got off all   medication and knock on wood been very   healthy ever since.

 And so I had that   interaction uh great experience and then   I kind of went on and did other things   inside of the industry including working   for companies like ShareCare and Mercer   and Virgin Pulse now personify. But in   April this year I had the opportunity to   join the Wonder Health team and see how   much they've done uh in those past 12   years since I last saw them and it's   incredible to see the results and the   work that we've done really primarily   without medication.

 I know we'll talk   about GLP-1s, but I want to kind of   anchor ourselves and for 16 plus years,   we've been helping millions of   individuals primarily without the need   for medication. So, it's a pleasure to   be with you here today and talk through   the Wonder Health program.   >> That's great. Um, and you're not, as I   said, the hair club for men.

 You're not   only not only the president, you're also   a client kind of thing. um the uh   let's just sort of refine where you guys   are in this space because obviously   GP1's you know the big controversy there   a lot lot lot of there sort of obesity   pre-diabetes   uh and full-blown diabetes in terms of   cardio metabolic   where do you where do you play in in   that whole space I know when when you   know 12 years ago when you were   struggling with your uh with your with   your weight.

 You you look very skinny to   me now. So, I'm embarrassed here, but   >> I appreciate that. That's very   >> uh you know um you you look healthy and   in good shape. That marathon running is   clearly doing you well. But seriously,   what what you know um what what are the   who is the typical Wonder Health uh   client look like now?   >> Yeah, I would say that the market has   evolved significantly probably over the   last four or five years.

 And it's a   little bit like going to a party where   you show up a little bit early and it's   cool and it's great and then all of a   sudden everybody else kind of shows up a   little bit later and it becomes, you   know, a much bigger party. There's a lot   of folks coming into this space. But we   think of ourselves as really in the area   of prevention.

 So there are   organizations who are really good in the   area of reversal. those that have gone   to the point where they need true   clinical intervention, a lot of white   glove personalized experience and   there's a really good strong place for   those players in the market. You   probably know most of those. We think we   play in a slightly different market   which is there are individuals who need   to lose or manage their weight u but   aren't yet to the point of being   diabetic aren't yet to the point of   needing um more drastic clinical   interventions   and we can really serve that market well   in fact that's where we've been for 16   plus years uh we feel like the GLP1s are   definitely helping it but that's only   one piece of the you know equation which   is that drug alone is not enough to   really have a long-term effect. What   we're really proud of, Matthew, is the   fact that we have great success not only

  in that six to eight months, but really   over the long span of years, if not   decades, with individuals with people   like myself and that's where we think   we're different and and serve a   different audience.   >> That sounds that sounds great. So, why   don't you show me so if I'm I sign up   for Wonder, what what does it look like?   Can we can you show me show me a bit   about the experience here? Yeah, let me   show you a little bit of the experience.

  And again, the digital experience, you   should be seeing my screen in about two   seconds. Let me know. You should be see   Great. You're up.   >> So, the digital experience, right, is   very similar to what you've seen in   other tools and other platforms, right?   So, we believe that we can help you with   small lessons delivered each week that   come through for you to watch.

 These are   high quality uh videos that we produced   out of our own facility. Uh it's all   wonder content. It's all our specific   programs that help individuals go   through that journey to better   understand the connection between food   and themselves. Uh you'll see that   there's the ability to keep track of uh   very specific things that we think are   kind of important, right? So tracking   weight, really important, but almost as   importantly are things like the meal   timer. So again, I I'm from New Jersey.

  We do everything fast. I'm also one of   10. And so when it came to eating food,   it was a race to make sure that I finish   my meal before my siblings cuz that fork   was going to reach over and grab some of   the leftovers. And so naturally, I   developed this issue where like I just   eat way too fast.

 And what we know from   the research is that it takes about 20   minutes for your brain to recognize that   there's food in its stomach. And so   we've got things like a meal timer that   comes in that helps you better   understand, hey, here's how you can keep   track of it. Here's how you can eat   mindfully and you can see how well you   do in terms of hitting that 20 minute   mark.

 I will tell you 20 minutes is a   long time. It is not it's not a it's not   that easy, but it's learning those   simple skills that help the individual.   >> So if you actually run that meal track   of time, if you go back to it again,   just run it. Um, you say I'm hungry or   whatever and it's going to start you   now.

 Are you actually gonna you're   actually going to start? It's actually   going to start actually start the timer.   Yeah.   >> So, this is this is this is this is   you're supposed to um you're supposed to   eat during this period or you're   supposed to not eat during this period.   >> Yeah. So, it's 10 minutes of eating,   five minutes of pausing.

 10 minutes of   eating, five minutes of pausing. Right.   And so you can get it to the point where   you let this go through and then you can   say, "Hey, let's stop. I'm full." And   then it asks you a series of questions   to reflect on how did you do in that   time.   >> So this is getting this is getting you   in a habit of going I can eat more   slowly and then instead of immediately   going, "Oh, let's have seconds and the   fifth the fifth slice of pizza or   whatever.

" You know, I eat what's on my   plate and then I stop for a while and   then after a while I go, "Hey, I don't   really need the   >> I may not really need the next part." I   get it. Yeah. Very good. Yeah. And so   it's those things that again we we talk   about, you know, you can eat pizza and   drink beer using the Wonder program. You   can go to Thanksgiving and not feel   anxiety about what can I eat.

 You can go   to Christmas and have a drink or two.   Like there's ways that you can live   normal life. That's very different from   what's out there in terms of the diet   that is overly prescriptive. the diet   that says you can only eat keto or the   diet that says you can only eat broccoli   on a Friday like that that works for a   very short period of time and that works   for certain individuals but not for   everybody.

 And so in ours it's not   points it's not take a picture of your   food and analyze it. It is hey how   hungry are you? Because the reality is   nine times out of ten you're eating not   because your body's hungry but because   you're doing something else to manage   the emotion that you're dealing with   boredom, stress, anxiety, uh other   things that might be you know social   triggers.

 So we teach you how to do that   through the program. So, so if you go   back to the uh the progress, you have   the one the skills to wander up and the   one the last one the last right which is   the uh sort of starting off continuing   and then long-term care is would you say   that the majority of the success that   you've had and others have had is with   the educational part of this.

 I would   say it is a massive part of the overall   success is retraining the brain to   understand the connection that we have   with food and we do that through the   programs like through the videos that   they'll watch and the now it's   especially you know specifically   targeted for where you are throughout   the year and other things that are   relevant to you.

 But yeah, the   educational component is really critical   for getting people to understand how to   better manage their weight. And these   videos are what sort of you say is that   the third one is that six minutes is   that is that every every week?   >> Yeah. So every week you have a series. I   don't know if you can hear these playing   but   twisting.

  >> So we have it in different languages.   Right. So   >> these videos were are six minutes. You   can watch them. There's some more that   come but they're locked until you finish   this initial content.   >> Yep.   >> Right. And then there's also some other   things like a survey or a PDF or recipes   that are associated with this very   specific week.

 And so they're sitting in   here for the individual. So it's not   just watch a video and be done, right?   It's watch a video, think about it, do   an exercise or two, and build those   skills over time   >> to get yourself   >> uh in a spot where you're better   equipped to handle that connection with   food.

 So roughly how much time a week   are people to this sort of educational   part before we get into the tracking are   people having to dedicate?   >> Yeah, you're looking at probably maybe   10 minutes 10 15 minutes max. Okay.   >> Some tracking. So it's not like every   day I got to go in, right? Yeah.   >> It is.   >> Let's go and do it.

 And then in terms of   uh sort of performance and results, I   assume if you can find it, I mean, how   long do you how many uh weeks or   iterations did it take before you start   really seeing people pick up? So,   usually a lot of these things, you know,   if you get past the first or second   lesson, you might keep going for a   while, whereas some people I know in   physical therapy, if people do two   sessions, they might come back and do   10, whereas if they only do one or, you   know, one or two or whatever, they, you   know, stop. Then there's is there a   critical area where you want to try   where you find if you keep people this   this level of involvement or do you you   or do you find that people are only   taking this up because they are   committed? I guess there's the old   question of how do you get people to to   uh to really buy into the program?   >> Yeah, it's a great question. So   obviously the more time the better, but   typically within uh that first week   people make the commitment. Mhm.   >> Um and so uh I learned a long time ago   actually built a little like um

  pneummonic device of using the vowels of   a eiou to uh focus on behavior change.   So the A is is there awareness? The E   did I enroll in a program? The I is did   I have some initial inertia going? And   then the O is did I um start seeing some   outcomes? Did my you know in this case   did my shirt fit a little bit better?   Did my belt go down one belt loop?   Right? And then the U is does it become   a utility? And the difference between,   you know, something that you're working   on a utility, a utility, you don't even   think about. You just do it. You tie   your shoes without having to like   mentally go through that process. So if   you go through that step, what we do is   we get those folks past that point where   they get some of that initial inertia.   Right? Weight management like going to   the gym is not something that is fixed   with one visit or one session but over   time you start to see that progress and   you start to feel it before you start to   see it and then after that others see

  it. So typically 6 to 8 weeks, very   common of any kind of behavior change,   uh we'll see people really kind of stick   with it for the long haul, but we're   along with them through that journey.   And so we're helping them by messaging   them individually. They can join our our   um ability to have a community wonder   link, which really goes through and   says, "Hey, here's what's going on in   this week.

" And so you don't feel like   you're alone in this journey. it's   something that you're doing together   with other people. So again,   >> so can we can we can we can we dive in a   bit on this sort of community and   coaching aspect. Um so in in the in the   standard program obviously you have a   message here which is to the community   from the coach.

 Do do there are a couple   of things which you know obviously   people people know worked well. One is   interaction one-on-one interaction with   coaches and the other is is community   and peer groups. So how important are   both of those and how present are both   of those in the standard program? Both   of those are very present in the program   and they're very important.

 And so we   have um the coaches will sit and look at   the content that's being sent in and   they'll be adding, you know, their own   little comments. They'll also be   starting conversations. The individual   has the ability to message their coach   at any point in time and get a response   back and say, "Hey, here's what I'm   working on.

 Can you help me?" Right? So,   do you have a question? You can   literally talk to a health coach at any   point in time. They'll respond um so   that you've got that connection and that   feeling that you're not uh on this all   on their own. Um so plenty of resources.   We have uh registered dietitians as   well. Uh we have nurse practitioners.

  We've got specialists. So it's really um   built around the support mechanism so   they don't feel like they're going at it   alone. And what's the typical   interaction between a a person on the   member on the program and a coach? I   mean, how often are they touching base?   Is it is it like a barbell or sometimes   never a lot of people doing a lot or is   it is a distribution? What's what what's   what do you tend to see then? You'll   you'll know what the next question is   after I and right now this is with uh   this is with you mentioned human   coaches, right? We'll get to the next   obvious question.   But tell me about the first one. about   it now.   >> Yeah. So, we we typically see some early   engagement with those individuals who   are coming in. They want to know where   do I go for something. The what and the   where's that you typically find when   someone starts a new program. And then   they'll need some support for their why,   right? Which is like why am I doing   this? Remind me again. And that's where   things like, you know, the ability to   give them rewards for hitting their

  goals is really important. So, they can   talk to their coach as often as they   want. It is not a um standard you must   check in once a once a week or three   times a week. It's really built around   what they want for support. And so we'll   see some people who come in every day   and they'll message their coach.

 Hey, I   had a great day yesterday and I want to   go, you know, push myself a little   harder this this week on my steps. Or   they might come in once cuz they're   having an issue. The holidays are coming   up. They want to know how to engage in   um the holidays in a healthy way. So   there's no requirement.

 It is really   personalized and flexible based on where   they feel like they need help.   >> Do you uh before we get to my next   question, do if someone signs up and   isn't very active, I assume we can tell   how far they've got through the program.   Um, yeah.   >> Does it work to have coaches or people   reach out and say, "Hey, can you give   them a nudge to get them involved or are   you pretty much I mean I'm always   interested in the people who who uh get   to your E in roll but don't really get   very far in the I right don't get very   far in the the the   >> I forgot what I was in instant   >> in just getting just have inertia but   don't get the inertia rolling you know.   >> Yeah. So we do we do a a fair amount of   outreach proactively to the individual.   Uh there's always that fine line between   chasing somebody down and enabling   somebody who believes that they can make   a change. And so we balance those two   pretty well in terms of uh how do we

  engage that individual um and making   sure that they're feeling supported.   What's what's really fascinating,   Matthew, is we actually have quite a few   people who at the end of the year and   they've done this for a year, they'll   actually renew for a second year and   they'll they'll do even better the   second time through.

 So, sometimes like   people come into this program and   they'll be a little skeptical kind of   like I was, right? Be like, I've tried a   lot of things and this is going to be   another like take a picture of my food   and create like food prep. I'm not into   it. Like, I'm not doing that. and they   come through, they'll watch a video,   they'll do a little step, they'll take a   couple actions, and then they'll really   engage and come back and say, "Okay, now   I really want to own this thing now that   I see that it's actually going to help   me and not be something that's going to,   you know, really be a hamper in terms of   my lifestyle."   >> Fantastic. So the program if obviously   to to sum it up is education um some   tools around sort of mindset and   management care community coaching and a   bit of and community and peer support.   >> Yeah, that's correct. Yeah. In fact,   I'll show you a little bit of a that   same thing just in a slightly different   format. Um, in terms of what we think is   important and I I think it'll tie up   nicely for the conversation, my guess is

  you're going to want to have around the   the the one thing I didn't quite the one   thing I didn't quite ask yet was uh   right now your coaches are human.   >> They are human. Where are you going in   terms of the AI support for that? Is   that I mean that man is important. we   hearing a lot about about uh chat GPD   being used for this kind of thing.

 So   >> yeah, so again if you think about it   right these are all the areas that we   believe are important to support an   individual when it comes to success and   part of that is that emotional mental   health that individual connection with   the person.   >> We are not at a uh lack of information   pure information.

 So, could I go to chat   GBT and say, "Create a program for me to   lose weight?" Absolutely. Could do that   all day long. Most people are not doing   that because that's not the barrier. The   barrier is the emotional and   psychological and mental health   connection that they've got to overcome   in order to get to that point where that   information is valuable for them, right?   And so, we believe right now humans are   the best for doing that.

 AI has the   promise of that and we're looking at it,   but we're not going to go, you know,   headlong into AI first until we really   have proven out that it can deliver   equal or better outcomes for the   members. So, we believe, you know,   that's the best approach.   >> My suspicion all these things is that is   that roughly 25% of the people are going   to do everything anyway, don't need   coaching.

  >> Yeah. 25% of the people really very hard   to motivate by coaches and just going to   do that what they do what they do and in   the middle you can probably move a lot   of people with the right amount of   motivation that's probably goes for any   form of human activity and uh you know   the the the and there are a lot of   people probably just could use the   skills but it's very interesting you   talk about the change in mindset I have   a friend who lost enormous amount of   weight and he did it by telling me that   he talked to a nutritionist and was was   just told that if you ate your food in   different order I think you would eat   the carbohydrates last and the protein   first or something, you know, and that   changed that changed   >> that was what it did to to change his   perspective of food. It worked. Yeah.   I'm still the question, you know, how   many how many beers can I drink on a   Friday night? L   >> that's okay, too, right? And so, it's   it's understanding,   >> right? Like things like that, like, hey,   is the order of food really important?   It is. And so, I can't get you to that   point in the conversation until I get   you to the point of like, you do need a   change. There needs to be some kind of   change going on, but let's not do it in

  a way that really changes. You don't   need to change everything right away.   Small change over time.   >> And I think there's a lot of people sort   of the the BJ Thog sort of small daily   habit change stuff is huge for behavior   change. And and I think, you know, I   completely I see if I can, you know,   just the thing you were saying about   slowing how fast you eat and do have the   second helping and you grab for the   leftovers immediately.

 And yeah, I'm   absolutely as guilty as hell as everyone   else. Oh, there's I've had two slices of   pizza. There's three more left. So go   right. Yeah. And not waiting for the 20   minutes and did you need the third   fourth slice? Probably not. And a lot of   that you see in these other cultures   where you know there are smaller plates   and smaller portions and America has   obviously gone to excess in all kinds of   ways.

  >> Yeah. I would Yeah. But even simple   things like for me leaving something on   my plate at the end of the day I it's   still a struggle, right? And so like I   sit there go well I was   >> sure when there was 10 of you in the   house you   >> exactly   >> thought you had to eat that. If you   didn't you would sure you got to take   it. Yeah.

  >> It didn't matter if it was good food or   bad food. It was food and I didn't know   when the next meal was coming. So it was   like I got to go eat while I can. And so   slowing down and then like one of the   things I've learned you know just in the   last couple months is leaving something   on my plate.

 Can I leave a little bit on   my plate? And I'll tell you the   emotional anguish that I have to go   through to leave like a little helping   of something on that plate. It's it's   still an area of an improvement for me   because if it's there. So what's the   fix? Get a smaller plate. Get a smaller   plate. Take everything off. Okay. It's   not the same thing as a big plate with a   lot of food.

 So it's those simple   behaviors that you learn, right? And not   every it's not going to work every time,   but over time you start to build those   better life skills.   Yeah, fascinating. So that so that's the   program. Um ballpark, how many people   are going through it a year? How give me   give me a sense about how gone through   it? How many people are going through it   a year? What's the uh what's the what's   the the situation with that?   >> Yeah, so we've got hundreds of thousands   of individuals who are going through the   program uh or eligible for the program.   Uh and that number continues to   increase. We've had some great results.   Um, you can go look at, you know, the   things like the Google and App Store   ratings for the countless people. We get   um plenty of inbound messages from   people who have said, "We love it. It's   great." You know, as you would expect   any good program. Um, and so that's   that's our focus. We work primarily as a   medical claim. So we bill as a medical   claim rather than on a PEPM which means   that we're only

  really working with those people who   have signed up for the program as   opposed to all who have access to it. So   there's millions you've you've jumped   ahead sort of one question here which is   yeah the business how do you sell it   right you mentioned medical claims. So   is this primarily sold to uh uh health   plans and then sort of via employers or   is it h how what's when when you got to   go back to your put your growth officer   hat on now.

  >> Yeah, of course.   >> What uh who are you talking to to get   people on the program in the first   place?   >> Yeah. So the first we have a kind of a   multi-step approach to how we go to   grow. The first one is to leverage the   health plans, PBMs, TPAs and others who   are administering the claims because we   do bill as a medical claim as the   primary vehicle for our our company.

 So   we we work with them and help them to   see that we are a really strong lever to   drive down cost in-year cost which is   really important. Um and so that's the   first kind of step. The second step is   talking to those riskbearing entities.   So, ASOS, fully insured groups, or   anybody who's actually paying for the   cost of care and showing how our program   is really good from a preventative side   to drive down what could be long-term   costs.

 And then we actually have to sell   it to the individual. And so, we do a   fair amount of marketing. We are not,   and I think this is what makes us very   unique and different, Matthew, in the   market is we're not a DTC solution. So,   we don't have our origins in trying to   get people to respond to an ad. Where   are we really good? We're really good at   understanding the relationship between   the employer and the employee or the   riskbearing organization and that   individual.

 It matters significantly in   terms of how you communicate that   message. And then uh in terms of numbers   of health plans that cover wander as a   as a as a medical benefit as medical   claim uh is it how how widespread is   that now?   >> Yeah, I'm so glad you asked that   question because I've got that slide   ready for you and fired up.   >> Show show me the slide.

  >> Exactly. So, we we're really fortunate   that we've been again doing this for   quite some time. And let me just get to   that right slide and then I'll share it   on the screen and you should be seeing   that now.   So, we we've we've worked really well   with over 140 different health plans and   partners, right? We've got um   thousands of really really happy   employers and that's why we're very   different.

 We're built for the employer   and we have, you know, we've been   fortunate enough to serve countless   individuals at the employee level. Um,   great retention rate, great success rate   like all around. Um, we feel like we do   something a little different in the   market. We're not a BPM, we're not a per   participant.

 We're really based around   the overall engagement of that   individual.   >> So, when I if this is a medical claim,   do I need to be uh if I'm So, I've got   through this, right? I know on the my   employer has it, the health plan has it.   You know, my health plan has it. I   figured out why my employer I'm ready to   go and do this.

 Do I need to be referred   by a doctor? Do I need a prescription   for this? Uh what's the what what what   is the medical claim and who's who's   billing under that claim? You know,   who's PIN? Is that one one is that a is   that a a practitioner on your site? How   does that actually work in terms of   practice? because this is like a hard   many uh and I know we're going to change   this with the access program and god   knows what's happening in Medicare all   the stuff around this but but this is a   hard question for most sort of programs   like you and digital health companies   delivering is how do I actually like   build within the context of of the   current insurance system and get paid.   >> Yeah. So we make it really simple and   easy for both our channel partners and   for our employers and for the   individuals. So, they would be   communicated via email, print, the   traditional way that you would let, you   know, an employee know that there's a   new benefit that's available to them.   Uh, there's a sign up where they would   go out to wonderhealth.com.   They would enter in their employer name

  and they would enroll in the program.   They don't need to talk to their doctor.   They don't need to give us a credit   card. They don't do any of that stuff.   Like, none of that happens. We make it   really simple and easy for the   individual to sign up. So, they can sign   up that day and get started with the   program.

 uh we build as that individual   goes through the program and achieves   certain milestones or does certain   meaningful engagements in the platform.   And so we've set it up with a max cap so   that we're not billing endlessly to the   health plan. We work out in advance. We   bill four claims or nine claims based on   the severity.

 So four claims is without   medication. Nine claims are with   medication. And we'll go through that.   What does it look like from a medication   perspective? Vast majority of ours go   through four claims. That's a monthly   engagement. So, they're going to bill no   more than four times, but they have   access to the program all year long,   right? And so, it makes it very simple   and easy.

 It goes through as a   preventative claim. Um, and so that's   what allows it to work. and we are   authorized to provide that service   because of the work we've done with the   health plans that they see that there's   value and hard ROI in doing that work   >> and uh ballpark what are you getting for   what are you billing and getting for   kind of the fourmonth one versus the   ninemonth one?   >> Yeah, so it's different with each plan.

  So a couple hundred roughly is what we   would get for a claim and so we would   bill it out based on our achievement to   date, right? So, do they hit all four   claims or they hit all nine claims?   >> So, a couple hundred per claim or per   per four claims   >> per claim.   >> Claim. Okay.   >> Yeah. Per claim.   >> So, so we're talking, you know, the full   one is sort of on the way to a thousand   bucks. Not quite.

 And then   >> yeah, somewhere in that neighborhood.   >> Yeah.   So, let's let's talk a bit about I don't   know if this slide a different slide.   Let's talk a bit about how this is   playing in the world of GLP1s. Um   obviously you know I don't know about   what happened to you when you were your   now when I now when I go to my primary   care doctor the first thing they say is   well come on look at you 30 pounds   overweight here's Mjaro basically I mean   >> that's basically what's been been said   to me and you know obviously the the   cultural   domination of the conversation by the   GP1s that we've seen in the last what   three two three four years   >> years something that we've never seen   from any other drug probably ever. Well,   I guess there was Viagra back, but there   was Viagra for a very different   condition back in the 90s, but I mean,   you know, in terms of in terms of what's   happened, you know, the it appearance in   Hollywood and everywhere else, right?   And we know that there's a   >> and obviously it's now lots of questions   about the cost and all this and the   other.

  >> Yeah. Where where do you where do they   you mentioned not non-medications being   your core way to go? Where do you fit in   with the GP1 world? Yeah, it's a great   question and one that we've been asked   quite a bit, especially over the last   call, two plus years. So, we we believe   GLP1s do serve a really good and   important function in weight management.

  And so, we're not discounting them. We   believe that there are certain   individuals for whom they can get on a   medication like a GLP-1   and see great results and then they can   come off. We also do believe that there   are some and the research is really now   starting to get backed that up that will   need to be on it for life and that's   just the reality in the same way that   we've got insulin and we've got SSRIs   and we've got other similar types of   medications that follow that same kind   of protocols. So we believe it's a tool.   It's not a hammer and not everything's a   nail. And so I shared this on LinkedIn a   couple weeks ago, but I went onto my HSA   account from a prior employer. And on my   HSA account, I was solicited to buy a   GLP one, which should blow your mind,   like when you think about that. Like a   bank is now telling me that I should be   putting on a weight loss. I mean, maybe   they saw a photo of me when I logged in   or walked into their bank, but like   that's not the appropriate use of it. So

  what we believe is that you should let   the people who are really good at this   manage this. We're fortunate to be led   by Dr. Tim Church who is an expert in   the area of obesity management and   actually helped to write a lot of the   clinical programs and protocols to some   of these uh AOM anti-besity medications.

  So when we sit with an employer or we   sit with any organization we ask them a   couple simple questions.   One of them is like, are you ready to   future proof your weight management   strategy? Because the landscape of   medications today will not be what we're   going to see even in Q1. Orals are   coming out.

 More advanced drugs, drugs   that are targeted to very specific   subconditions are coming out. So, do you   want a solution that's going to help   manage that? If the answer is yes,   great. The next question is, do you want   to offer, and this is the key word,   access the GLP1s.   There's a whole different area around   who pays for it.

 But do you even want to   have access to GOP ones as part of your   program? If your answer is no, no   problem. We've got our 16-year proven   solution that works really well in that   space. Got you covered. If the answer is   yes, great. We have our 16-year proven   proven program   with the addition of medication, a   program we call Wonder Advanced.

 And   then that goes to the last question,   right? which is well who's going to pay   for the medication and we offer a range   of options for that employer. They can   either pay for it completely out of   their own pocket, they can have their   employee pay for it out of their own   pocket or they can do some kind of cost   share.

 So we give this as a spectrum of   options as opposed to a binary yes or   no. And this allows the employer to I   would call it have their cake and eat   it, right? if they want to offer GLP1s   but they're worried about cost, we can   walk them through the various ways that   they can manage those costs proactively   rather than waiting reactively for it.

  So,   >> so let me ask two questions. One is do   you medically prescribe the GOP ones or   does that have to go out to somebody   else to prescribe and fill and come   back? Is that does that live within   wonder or does that and and the second   question is what share when you when you   get down to it what share of people come   on the program these days are are doing   the GLP1 versus not   >> yeah great two great questions so we   have created the protocols we've   partnered with a third party that helps   the um prescribing component but they   they prescribe to our regimen um and it   for the user it is fully integrated They   don't see anything different. It is all   under one umbrella. What's radically   different about the way we structure the   business operationally and fundamentally   is we make zero dollars off of the sale   of GLP1s.   Zero dollars. And we think that that's a   massive differentiation   because

  there are GLP1 organizations that they   can only survive if they're writing   scripts. That's not good. There are   others that are saying we want to kill   all GOP ones and anybody who's on them.   Well, that's not good either because   there's a good use case for that. So, we   we want to say like we sit in the middle   of that road and really figure out.

 So,   our folks do it according to our   protocols. We handle everything for   them. Um and then the question is how   many people go and use it? So, coming   in, we see a a good number of folks   coming in who have it. if they haven't   yet started on a GLP-1, we'll have a   conversation with them. We are about to   release a really important study.

 Um, I   don't want to give away too much of it   because it'll be coming out probably   around this time of this podcast, but we   were able to help a Fortune50 company   manage their GOP1 spend at a remarkable   rate. primarily because when we had a   conversation with them, the vast   majority of people chose a behavior   change program first before going on a   medication.

  And we think that that's really   important because if you go on a drug   like a GLP-1 and then you get off it,   but you haven't changed your behaviors,   we know what's going to happen, but it's   going to come back,   >> right? And then you spent all that money   as the employer and saw none of the   benefit.

 So, we've worked with employers   to create I don't want to call it a   prior authorization, but I'd call it   readiness program, which is I'm getting   ready to go on a medication. Great.   Let's start you doing those behavior   changes now. You get on the medication.   It supercharges your results and then   when it's time for you to come off with   a doctor who is motivated for your best   outcome and not for a financial gain,   let's figure out if it makes sense for   you to come off and when.

 And to be   fair, there's other things besides GOP   ones that are also very effective. And   so you don't have to go on a GOP1. You   don't have to go at the highest dose. We   can help you figure that out.   >> Makes a lot of sense.   >> So um final part here, Jim, is is you   have been out uh as you mentioned lot   lot of lot of competition, a lot of   people doing different things, cardio   metabolic and weight loss and all the   rest of it.

 a lot of different options   um as as we've discussed, but you've   been looking at different ways to   actually sort of get the point across as   to why this makes sense financially. So,   you have a new tool. So, why don't you   show me what what tell me a little bit   what that is and how you're sharing that   with people now.   >> Yeah.

 So most of the people Matthew when   we talk to them will say this looks   great and then the next question is it's   too expensive or how do I how do I get   my CFO or whoever is responsible for   writing that check to agree because all   they hear about in the news is really   expensive and it's getting crazy and I   don't want to do it.

 We are really   fortunate we partner with an   organization called Beyond Bion. They're   um individuals who have been in the   industry for I don't know decades.   They're former buyers and former benefit   consultants and former industry giants.   Uh, and they've worked with us to create   a tool called the value engine.

 And this   is radically different from a case   study, a generic kind of costbenefit   analysis. And I'll show you why. So you   should be seeing my screen now. But what   we do is we actually take the very   specific inputs that are unique to that   organization, their industry, their mix   of males and females, their concerns   around MSK or sleep, the average dollars   that we can save.

 And what we've done is   we've created benchmarks and we   reference out the actual source for that   benchmark.   But if they don't agree with it and they   want to have their own, no problem. They   literally hit client data and they put   in their own very specific value. And so   this goes from a textbook perfect   scenario, this is not really me to this   is actually me.

 This is my real actual   deal. And so what it does is it creates   for them an understanding of where they   will actually find the savings, hard   dollar and soft dollar. If they don't   care about those soft dollar savings, we   take them out. Absolutely take them out.   So again, it's built around the very   specifics of what matters to them around   healthcare cost, around cost avoidance,   about member engagement, about   productivity. Again, it's not our data.

  They get to put their data in. They get   to put their information in. And as a   result, it gives them a very clear   picture of what is the ROI,   what's the total investment, what will   they actually save, when will they   actually see that payback time, more   importantly, if they don't do anything,   what does it cost them in terms of   delays? and it creates some project cash   flows so they can bring this to whoever   is involved in making the financial   decisions   um for them to look at this and say hey   is this real and then we as an   organization back it up with a PG that's   specifically tied to the performance and   to the ROI that we have built into the   business case   >> so that so that's that's obviously the   fascinate why you do this right so so   number one is how how many uh how is   this brand new or have people been   through this system.   >> So we we've Yeah, we launched this in uh   Q3 of this year.

  >> Okay. So this is pretty new. Is the goal   is the goal here for you to go at risk   for these for these numbers and these   savings?   >> Yeah. So that's the goal is that we'll   build in PGs and go at risk where it   makes sense and if the um organization   wants us to do that like we're very open   to having that conversation.

 Um but   yeah, that's the intent is we want to   put our money where our mouth is. We   know we can do a great job. Uh we've got   some really great studies that where   we've shown that. But again, a study is   a study and everyone says, "But I'm   different. I'm unique. I, you know, I'm   not the same." So great.

 Let's build it   around you. Let's make it for exactly   you and your situation.   >> Fantastic. So you're basically taking   this now to Right. Uh so so Jim, I like   that whole thing. put your money where   your mouth is and you're uh you know you   were talking about changing the way that   you're thinking about um you know   delivering this and and making this sort   of more obvious for employers.

 Um   obviously that's you know that that's   that's a big piece. You are I think   still within the sort of realm of of of   kind of   how do you get through the noise? This   is probably a great way of doing it. Um   what what's your expectation for how the   company and we'll move a little bit more   about how the company's doing for how   the company is going to grow and you   know h how you see this overall program   taking off and what you know where are   you now in terms of you that number of   employers people served where do you   think this is going to go and how do you   think that relates to the what else you   see going on in the market? Yeah, great   questions. So, we're fortunate and as   the person responsible for growth, we   always want to see that number up and to   the right. We've had a great year. This   has been a phenomenal year, one of our   best uh in company history. And we are   expecting that this is kind of the low   water mark for 26. Um predominantly   because one, it's the topic at every

  dining room table, every boardroom table   is GLP1's, GLP1's, GLP1s. And we feel   like we've carved out a unique niche   which is we're not always on the far   end. We're not trying to drive up cost.   We're not a direct to employer or direct   to consumer. We really are kind of   sitting in that middle and pulling for   the employer, pulling for the health   plan, pulling for the individual and   really finding that win.

 Uh we think   GB1's are going to change the landscape.   There's no doubt about it. And we're   excited for what that means. But I would   also say that you know anytime there's a   boom we know what comes after that which   is the bust. And so the question is like   how many of these companies are going to   last if they are not profitable.

 How   many of these companies are going to   last if they only do a one-trick pony of   a GLP1? Right? And we're fortunate   enough that we've had great success for   16 years without it. Like if GOP 1's   went away tomorrow we're still doing   really well. it doesn't change, you   know, the um the ultimate kind of goal,   but we do believe that medication plus   support is really important.

 And so we   are excited for 26. We've been adding   staff. We've been growing. Um we're just   getting started really when we think   about it because the race has just   begun.   >> And give me a quick bunch of metrics   about the company. How many people are   you? Um give me a sense of uh you you   mentioned number of clients you have,   but give me a sense of where where you   are as an organization.

  >> Yeah. So, we're we're a really small but   powerful team about 110 120 people. Uh   we're based in Dallas, Texas. Uh we're   growing nicely in terms of, you know,   overall revenue. Um and we just think   that as a profitable company, we've got   the engine internally. We don't need any   outside money to go make it, you know,   successful.

 We're not spending so much   trying to acquire a customer that we   have to get them to buy and buy and buy   and buy. The the model works really   well. Uh and because we use a   distributed salesforce and leverage, you   know, our channel partners, we're able   to get the scale on a very small, you   know, group of individuals.   >> And you said you had raised extra money.

  Have you guys raised money in the past   or has this all been organic?   >> We have. Yeah. So, we've we've had a   number of raises over the years. Um we   actually came out, which is kind of an   interesting part. We came out from a   benefit broker. That's where we got our   start.

 Uh, and so we've had small raises   along the way and then, you know, we've   been able to be profitable for the past   couple of years, which has really helped   us be in a good position to make smart   decisions for the company.   >> And who's who's the majority owner at   the moment?   >> So, we're owned by Riverside Capital out   of Chicago.   >> All right.

 Well, that's great to hear,   Jim. Thanks a lot for running all the   way through Wonder Health. Uh really   interesting to see what you what you   guys have been building, what you're   doing, and this kind of new approach to   to cardio metabolic and uh you know   getting people like me who need to use a   few pounds onto the program.

 I should   probably sign up.   >> You should sign up.   >> It works so well.   >> It works so well for you.   >> That's right.   >> We'll see what we do. All right. I mean   on this THCB spotlight with Jim Galla.   He is the chief growth officer at Wonder   Health. Jim, thanks for your time.   Really appreciate you coming on to TCB   and showing us all about it.

  >> Likewise. Thank you, Matthew.





