Title: Justin Schrager, Vital.io
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ynW3v3QNYqs
Language: en
Duration: 01:00:40
Upload Date: Nov 3, 2025

Transcription:

[Music]   Hi, it's Matthew Holt with the   Healthcare Blog back with another chat   and demo in our Tv Spotlight and this is   with Justin Shreger. Justin is the   founder and the chief medical officer of   Vital uh Vital IO. You'll find him on   the web. Vital is in the business of uh   I call it patient uh navigation and   awareness while they're in the hospital.

 um and in the and the in in actually   during care. Um this is uh something   that I think it you know people haven't   thought a lot about um but over the uh   over the years you know you get into a   hospital emergency room you get an   inpatient room no one really knows   what's going on but there's a lot of   data in the hospital uh in the ER and in   the uh ED help which should be able to   help you and V's in the business of   servicing that and helping people out.

So, I hope I've got that roughly right,   Justin. You can correct me if that's uh   not entirely what you guys doing. I know   you do a bit more than that, but uh   we're going to see some examples of   that, but uh thanks for coming on on the   blog.   >> Thanks for having me. Yep. That's   basically what we do.

We try and make   things easier for patients to understand   while they're in the hospital.   >> So, uh let let's start with the basics.   How long have you guys been doing this?   >> Aaron and I co-founded the company about   eight and a half years ago. We're   venture-backed company post series B and   um made it through the pandemic and   um we've come out doing this for yeah   about eight and a half years.

So um   what what is the so ignore pri prior to   8 and a half years prior to you guys   doing this now what is the typical   experience of a patient either going to   the ER or being admitted to the hospital   in terms of understanding what's going   on and you know why why is no problem   why do they need you   >> yeah I mean that's a good point so the   problem we solve is communication we try   to improve the sensation of   depersonalization being forgotten about   not understanding what's going um   feeling talked down to. All the things   that people complain about in medicine,   I think they're true to some extent. I'm   an ER doctor. I've been working in the   ER for a long time. I still do. Uh I   still practice. And uh the things that   I've noticed, especially during the   pandemic and post pandemic, is that um   people have a different need for   information. They experience it in like   every other consumer aspect of their

 life. like whether it's buying things on   the internet, ordering food, and just   the digital consumer nowadays is   different, more demanding, and less   compromising when it comes to um lack of   information. So, really, it was spurred   on by the pandemic. But if you're a   patient and you check into the ER   nowadays, more often than not, you're   going to spend a good amount of time in   the waiting room, which is a bit of a   black hole.

you don't really have   information on what's going on behind   the scenes, why you're waiting, how long   you have to wait, um why the guy who   checked in after you gets to go before   you.   >> Hey, they took some vials of blood from   me after I got triaged. What happened   with those vials of blood? What tests   are those? Like   >> just it's not a place that's most people   spend a lot of time.

And when you're   sick and not feeling well or you're   scared or you're there with family   members, you try to be an advocate for   yourself, but you don't necessarily   understand the system. You really need   someone to hold your hand. Uh you really   need kind of an insider knowledge, so to   speak.

And I think that that's at the   heart of what we're doing, which is if   you had if you had an ER doctor friend   or neighbor who could come sit with you   in the ER and help translate what was   going on around here um verbally, that'd   be pretty valuable. But we tried to do   that digitally.   >> All right, sounds good. And then what   other areas of the hospital you're in?   You said you're in the ER.

The hospital   is you during the impatient stay. What   about the rest of the outpatient world?   Are you you there too or are you pretty   much within the sort of when someone's   getting care   >> primarily in the acute care setting? Uh   we have started to work in the urgent   care space as well. Um, and then we also   do help patients navigate their post-   discharge um, life cycle, I guess, if   you want to call it, the follow-up   process, um, picking up their meds and   things like that.

So, we really see the   acute care visit as the start of the   time we talk to patients and then we   follow them through their whole stay and   then after it.   >> All right. So we'll talk a bit about how   how you know patient information and   patient communication is going because   that is a world that's that's definitely   changing and there obviously a lot of   people coming at that from multiple   multiple different different areas and   lots of different organizations all who   think they are delivering patient center   care and may or may not be but let's   dive in and see what the actual   experience is like using vital. So what   what you're going to show me here is   we're going to see somebody who's just   showed up at the emergency room. Yeah, I   can pull up the uh demo system.   All right. So, if you   >> just to check, this is a demo system,   but it's a system that's in use in a in   a bunch of hospitals.   >> Yeah. So, it's in um it's in a bunch of   hospitals. We're in over 20 health   systems and about   >> This isn't something you just coded in   Sigma yesterday.   >> No.

So, so we're in we're in the hospital.   We I've just shown at the hospital and   >> yes, this is not vaporware. This is   >> I was just just doing the uh and I guess   I showed up and they they asked me my   phone number as part of the intake   process. You sit down and fill in a form   usually.   >> Yeah.

Or some now you're filling in a   kiosk, right?   >> We we have a different intake process uh   than other health technology companies   that you've probably seen. So, um we   don't do username passwords. We don't do   downloads. Um, we don't do kiosks or   iPads or any of that stuff. So, we do   things a little differently. It's all   bring your own device.

Meaning, I mean,   this is this day and age, almost   everyone has a smartphone. And, um, we   use that. So, in order for you to use   our system, you have to register. You   have to show your ID. You have to prove   to a human being that you are Matthew   Holt and that you are checking into the   emergency department.

After that point,   you have an encounter created in the   electronic health record. Our software   is SAS that we sell to hospitals but it   is attached to the hospital's electronic   health record whether it's Epic Cerner   MedTek um all scripts and once we get a   signal that a patient has registered and   created a new encounter we will reach   out to that patient on their cell phone   that they gave during the registration   process and invite them to use Vital.

Um, it's a white-labeled solution, so it   comes across to the patient as if it was   a most of the time patients say, "Oh,   this is a cool new patient portal thing   or whatever." But effectively, it's   something from the hospital,   >> right?   >> So, it would say something like, you   know, you get a this text message   that'll say, "Welcome to whatever your   hospital that you're at is.

" Then under   that, it would say, "Matthew, you want   to know how long you'll be waiting for   treatment and see your weight times and   lab results? Click here." It's kind of   like a password reset link. and that   brings you into the system. So, it um no   downloading, no Wi-Fi, no username and   password.

Uh we're two-factor   authenticating you in real life by   checking your ID and having a person   create an encounter for you. After that,   um you put your last name and date of   birth in to get in the system. It is   multilingual. Depending on the   prevalence of languages in in the   hospital's catchment area, we translate   it for them.

It is also translated   automatically into their uh browser's   language of preference. So if you are   Spanish- speakaking, you probably go on   the internet in Spanish and this whole   screen will be in Spanish for you   automatically.   That's it. So you can get into the web   application uh with your last name and   date of birth um after you've registered   in the hospital and we take you through   the process of the emergency department   based on the information we are   receiving from the electronic health   record. So, um, if you check in, you   walk in the front door, you register at   the desk, and you've not been triaged   yet, you would see this landing screen.   Whereas, if you came in by ambulance,   and you were rushed back to a regular   hospital bed in the ER, you might see a   different screen that's further along in   the journey. So, the um, the only thing   that staff need to do for Vital is get   your cell phone number. After that, it's   very hands-off. It's very patient um,   patient facing only, although there are   a few features that staff can can work   with. And it's just driven by changes to   the EMR basically.

 >> Yeah. We pick up on signals that happen   in the electronic health record and try   and help help patients understand that   those things have happened and what they   mean to them.   So in this case, the patient's waiting   to be seen by a triage nurse. We use   complicated machine learning model to   calculate weight times for all the   different steps in the ER.

Um, and we do   the same thing after triage, uh, to tell   a patient how long they'll be in the   waiting room, if they haven't brought   been brought back directly to a room.   Uh, we provide information about how   busy the ER is. This is to help the   staff out. Actually, almost everything   in here is to help the staff out.

You're   giving PA patients information that   normally they would walk up to the desk   and ask for or yell yell at you about.   >> They would stop some, you know, poor   staff member from playing Farmville or   whatever that I guess not play. Don't   know if I find that anymore, but you   know what the   answer is or actually doing some work.

You never know.   >> Yeah, we had a registration uh staff   member in my in my old ED before I moved   tell me that it was eerily quiet out   here, which is not a word we use lightly   in the emergency department for those of   you that are that work in emergency   medicine. So, for her to say that, I was   like, okay, this thing is working.

It   means cut it's cutting down on the   number of times people come up to the   desk. Contextually, for those of you   that have never worked in the ER,   working in the triage desk, the check-in   desk in an emergency department is like   when there is a serious storm that takes   out all travel at Hartsfield Jackson and   people are lined up at the customer   service desk at Delta, you know, like   trying to change their flights.

It's   like that but 24/7 all day long and even   angrier because people are not missing   flights. They're worried that they're   having a heart attack, right? So, it's   not an easy place to work. So anything   you can do to improve the quality of   life for those people will make it makes   a a world of difference. All right.

Anyway, so that's what this thing does.   It uh provides some estimates for   patients who are waiting to be seen   about how long it's going to take. Um we   have educational content in here about   you know like what is emergency room   triage like why why am I being   prioritized differently than somebody   else who checked in after me etc etc.

We'll tell people who's on their care   team if somebody signed up for them.   We have information from the hospital.   So, this is all customized. Sometimes   hospitals put um you know sort of   welcome videos from the CEO or CNO or   something like that in here. And then   all the other things like that.   If a patient gets triaged, we know   that's happened in the EHR.

So, we move   them forward in their experience   automatically. If they get triaged and   they get moved back to the waiting room,   um and we know they're going to wait out   there for a little amount of time. the   thing that they're going to care about   the most is like how long do I have to   sit out here till I get seen.

And so   we've spent years, literally years, um   creating machine learning models that   calculate weight times in the emergency   room. And that's what we'll show a   patient front and center. Um I could   talk about this for quite a while, but   suffice to say, it's kind of like Google   Maps.

So Google Maps knows how long it   takes you to drive to work in the   morning. um it knows that the few cars   ahead of you have taken longer than   expected on the same route and so it   will lengthen your estimate. It's um a   machine learning model that's   benchmarked in queuing theory where we   look at velocity through the department   rather than um sort of like what's the   average weight time on this day of the   week for the last 10 years.

We don't do   it like that. Ours is more   >> as a patient you don't have to   understand queuing theory and operations   research to do this. You can just look   at the number I guess.   >> Yeah, you look at the number. The number   is we we try to Disneyy it actual   estimate is 40 minutes and uh the upper   bound of the confidence interval of the   estimate is the 1 hour you see on the   right.

So in in in real life 92 to 94%   of all patients fall within the confines   of this estimate which is pretty good in   the ER where   >> if you've worked in the ER again there   are a lot of people that just like   wander out of the waiting room. You   don't know where they went. they went   outside to smoke or who knows like you   know there's a lot of chaos out there   but we get it right almost all the time.

Um so we know a person's waiting we have   different types of types of why do I   have to wait so long in the emergency   room type videos that help explain   things again care team information and   as people proceed through this process   they're going to have access to more   stuff uh depending on the context of   that part of their visit.

So, while   you're waiting, you may not have a lot   of tests and results back yet, but once   you get into a room, you will. And so,   we're going to we're going to give you   more information about that. Then, let's   say you wait, you know, 2 hours or an   hour and a half, and the ER is like,   that's just crazy.

We need to reach out   to these people. We'll do it   proactively, whether or not you've   logged into Vital. We will reach out to   a person's phone number and uh apologize   for the department, tell people not to   leave. What this does is it keeps people   sort of actively involved and and it   sort of does service proactive service   recovery and what that results in is a   decrease in left without being seen or   left without treatment complete.

It's   actually really important for um I mean   it's important financially that those   people don't leave because that's you   know from a business standpoint not   great but it's also great from a medical   legal standpoint like those the patients   that come in and check in and then leave   are you have a lot of liability around   them.

So, uh, it tends to be a key   business metric for many hospital   emergency departments and we really do   have a strong impact on it.   All right. So, let's say you make it   through the waiting room process in this   day and age and you have made it to a   hospital bed and and you are ready to be   taken care of by a doctor. We'll tell   you about how long it's going to take   for um the care team member to get in   the room.

We try to be fairly generic   about who we promise is going to come   see you. We don't say doctor or um PAP.   We tend to be fairly generic about how   we describe things. We'll tell you kind   of how it works or like what to expect   as a patient in the emergency   department. Like what would I, as an ER   doctor, want you to know about what's   about to happen, trying to keep you   focused while also um figuring out kind   of what your emergency is.

We'll tell   you who's on your care team. We'll kind   of show you some progress in the visit.   And here's where the app really starts   to have some cool features. Um although   it some of these are available earlier   if these things happen. We do things   like family sharing. This is extremely   popular.

So um just broadly speaking   about 2thirds on average of all ER   patients are going to use Vital when   they're in the ER for something or   other. And about a third of of of all   the people who come through the ER will   also use this family sharing. So, if you   click the family sharing in various   places in the app, it'll bring up the   system share dialogue in your phone, the   text message thing, and you pick someone   you want to send a text message to to   keep you updated.

We'll write the text   message for you in the app. You hit   send, and that person at home can follow   along with your progress in the   emergency department. Very simply, this   is something we built during COVID   because I was spending half of my shifts   on the phone kind of keeping people   people's family members updated as to   where they were.

And it's been it's   honestly it's just been really nice to   have this feature in the EDS where I   work and the patients love it.   >> Sure.   >> Um we also   explain to patients um their test   results. Um so let's get into that a   little bit. A lot of patients say a lot.   Some patients will use their patient   portal while they're in the emergency   department and hospital.

Tends to be   about 10 to 12% of patients. And that   these are patients that are already   members of your health system that   already have a My Chart account or a   Cerner portal account. Um, but that's   not the average emergency medicine or   hospitalized patient. A lot of patients   who come to the to the ER don't have a   PCP in your health system are new   patients or new medical problems or   they're not established or um they're   too sick to bother to log in and figure   out what their username and password   was, whatever it was 10 years ago when   they signed up for it. So um we tend to   get a large proportion of patients using   this and to that extent we feel that   it's responsible of us to help them   patients understand their results in a   patient portal you would just get   results you know sort of thrown at you   in this case we will take things like oh   you have a complete blood count it's a   multicomponent test right so we'll take   that test we will show you a video about   what a complete blood count is if you

need to learn and some content about it   we will also break the components down   into high, medium, low, depending on how   the lab spits out the results. And then   we will also explain to you what those   tests mean right then and there. So you   don't need to take your result and then   go out to Dr.

Google or chat GPT and say   what is a white blood cell count of 11.4   mean. We will just go ahead and tell   you. So it keeps everybody in the same   ecosystem in a controlled sort of   approved environment. So basically, if   you're in the ER, you've gone to   treatment, you've been somebody ordered,   you somebody came in, they ordered an   X-ray, ordered a test, you someone came,   someone else came in, drew blood,   whatever, you're sitting around waiting   for the the test to come back, and then   when it comes back, it is explained here   kind of before before at the same time   as when uh the the team come back.   >> Yeah. And and not only that, we'll tell   you what tests were ordered. I mean that   believe it or not that's a big problem   in the ER is like we put a patient in a   room we draw eight vials of blood out of   their arm and then walk out of there   without telling them what we're doing   and um so we'll tell them in here if   it's ordered or in progress or resulted.   >> Okay.   >> Um I would say the biggest ticket item   for patients that come to the emergency   department and the most expensive and   concerning is always imaging.

>> Yeah. It's uh not I mean it's fairly   common nowadays of course in the   emergency room but it requires a   different way of explaining things. So I   want to get into that a little bit. If   you go uh let's say you had an X-ray of   your ankle in the hospital and you were   one of the enterprising techsavvy   patients that remembered your my chart   login and you could get in there and   read the note once it's finalized.

You   might see something that looks like   this. We will show this in our   application too. Um it is not something   I would expect a patient to understand.   It is something that historically a   doctor would have to sit down with you   and explain. Um we felt that that wasn't   good enough and we wanted patients to be   able to have the tools to make sense of   their notes and results simultaneously.

So we use um large language models and   different AI models for note parsing to   help patients make sense of things. We   call this a doctor to patient translator   colloquially, but it's effectively   rewriting your radiology reports so that   you as a patient can understand it.   >> Even doctors might understand it at that   point.

>> Me does help me to be honest with you.   Yeah. I mean sometimes you get these   reports and you're like this is kind of   a vague rare finding and um you know it   is kind of a nice tool for me too   actually. So I'll sit down with   typically the way it works for me is I   will go into the room. I'll ask the   patient like, "Hey, did you get this   thing on your phone?" Um, if they say,   "Yeah, I" and then I'll say, "Let me see   it.

" And I'll be like, "All right, let's   look at this together." And I'll say,   like, "Does this make sense to you? Do   you need help understanding this?" But   the nice thing about this, I'm going to   be honest with you, is that it takes the   patients from like zero knowledge, it   takes them up to like three out of 10 or   five out of 10.

And then I get in the   room and I'm like, "All right, let's go   from five out of 10 to 10, which is   basically like there's a nuance thing I   need to talk to you about." And I can   spend more time talking to you about   what this means. It means that you're   going to need to have an operation on   your messed up ankle and you're going to   need to stay in the hospital for this,   which is what the patient really cares   about.

Um, rather than me coming in the   room and saying, "All right, have you   looked at your X-ray results?" No. Okay.   Well, I have some bad news. You got blah   blah blah. Right? So, it's just a   better, higher fidelity conversation   that we have when they're when they're   using it. It's really nice.   Okay. So um as a patient um goes through   the visit um there are a number of other   things they can do in this application.

I won't spend a ton on time on them but   they tend to fall in the sort of like   administrative category. So we will have   patients use their weight time as   productive time so they can correct   their information.   Um we have some surveying capacity in   here where we can do real-time service   recovery or staff accolades.

We have   tips to decrease life without being   seen. We decrease length of stay by   talking to patients about certain things   like how are you getting home? You   should start thinking about that now   before the end of the visit. Um   you know there's like even basic things   that you wouldn't you wouldn't think   patients actually spend a lot of time in   here.

like, "Okay, I do need to get my   med list ready before I get into the   room." Or, "By the way, did you know the   thing with that explains the most   variability in estimating the length of   stay in emergency department visit is   time to urine collection and result,   it's not CT scans, lab results,   assessments, or urine testing. Ask any   ER person what's the most vexing part of   their day, and it's trying to get urine   out of patients who just went to the   bathroom." Uh, yeah.

You want to talk   about chaos theory? it's encapsulated in   in your analysis in the emergency   department. So just doing these basic   things we could decrease length of stay.   Most of our users have a diminished   length of stay compared to non-users in   the application. So it is helping out um   sort of grease the wheels the of the   machinery of the emergency department.

So we're decreasing length of stay, we   are um decreasing left without being   seen. We're decreasing staff complaints,   improving Google scores, and all the   things that you would expect when you   communicate with people better. So   that's how it works in a nutshell. There   are some other cool features like we   have a YouTube video education system   that is not governed by staff.

It's it's   um queued on by sort of diagnostic codes   and procedural codes and reasons for   visit and things like that. Um you know   to be honest with you there are almost   no educational systems in the emergency   department. There t they tend to be more   geared towards inpatient setting and   outpatient setting and the ER patients   really need it.

Um, so and the only way   to really do it is to make it so that   the ER staff aren't like feeding and   watering it, right? It has to be   something somewhat handsoff.   We have a request system where patients,   this is something staff have to do, but   it's optional. So, they can turn it on   and off and this button goes away. But   if a patient wants something, they can   click a button and say, I need to talk   to somebody.

It works in the waiting   room, in a hall spot. It's very popular   for patients who are boarding and it   really solves that sort of like what's   going on around here problem because it   lets staff members come and like provide   them with service. So in this case in   this example was a patient with a bad   ankle fracture.

Um there are a couple   things that can happen after you've been   through this process. You can either be   admitted, discharged or transferred.   Those are the three options at the end   of an ER visit. Um and let's say you are   discharged home. Um, a patient will be   told kind of how long it's going to be   before you're discharged.

And then after   they're discharged, um, we do a number   of things to ensure that they know what   to do next. It's very simple. It's sort   of like one page. Um, here's what you   got to do after you leave the hospital   today. Um, it's understand your care.   So, we will you again use LLM to help   patients make sense of their doctor   notes and their discharge summary.

We   will tell them who to follow up with.   So, this person may have been listed in   their discharge paperwork as the person   to follow up with. We have a system that   will suggest other p other doctors they   can follow up with um based on the type   of surgery they need or where they live,   cost and quality data, which I can show   you at the end of the inpatient   experience.

>> I could definitely use that. The last   time I went to the ER, they actually   they gave me an MRI, they came out, they   said, "We've we've we've given you a   referral." And I finally read my note   and had the doctor's name and nothing   else. And I had to go Google the doctor.   And when I tried to call the doctor, of   course, it wasn't his office.

It was   like some spine center asking me what   kind of doctor I wanted. And they called   me back in three days. It was this would   have been better. I mean, the normal   lived experience for patients is to   receive a referral from your primary   care doctor or a specialist, right, to   see another specialist.   >> I mean, the majority of ER patients need   a specialist.

It's like 40 or 50% of   post ER discharge. They need they've   already been to the ER. where they've   had 6 months of medical testing   performed in 6 hours, cat scan, full set   of labs, an MRI, etc., etc., maybe even   a consult. And what they need is a   follow-up with a specialist. And the   tricky thing about that is ER docs don't   give referrals.

We just tell you who to   follow up with. And   >> at least they I think they gave me a   name, which is probably a one up go and   see a surgeon.   >> Yeah.   >> Here here's how we solve that problem.   So we will pull a name out of the   medical chart. So, like let's say you   came in um you fell down and broke your   wrist.

Okay, you need a hand and wrist   surgeon. Uh in this case, Selena Schwarz   was on call. She's the person that was   recommended. She may even came to see   you in the ER and said, "Hey, I want to   see you in my clinic next week." Right?   Um we are going to pull her information,   contact information, if it if the health   system has self-scheduling set up   through their electronic health record,   uh that will be an option as a button on   here too or or just the phone number.

we   will run your insurance against what she   takes. We'll give you her co cost and   quality data. Now, if you know, if the   ER doctor splints you himself, like if   you came in and I fixed your arm and I   said, "You need to go see a hand and   wrist surgeon." I don't put her name in   there.

We're going to show you a bunch   of hand and wrist surgeons that fall   within the network, right? And we know   not only that they're, you know, like   there are lots of orthopedic surgeons,   but not all of them do hand and wrist   surgery, right? But we can see from our   database what types of procedures this   person does.

So maybe it's not Selena   Schwarz, it may be Teresa Web or   Brooklyn Simmons that would be the ideal   doctor for you. Um, and you can kind of   read through all their data. You can   make that choice yourself. It what it   does is basically   you could think of it like a lot of   health systems have these like find a   doc systems where they put every doctor   in the whole world on there and you're   like ah there's like you know 250   orthopedic surgeons in this health   system.

Like who do I call? Well, you   don't know which one of them do hand and   wrist. You don't know which one take   your insurance. You don't, you know,   etc., etc. So, this will get you.   >> It's a bit of a cold.   >> Yeah.   >> Yeah.   >> We do the same thing for PCPs. A lot of   patients, believe it or not, who come to   the ER, only about 25% of them know who   their PCP is. It's insane.

>> Not surprised. 25% have a PCP at 21.   They are.   >> Well, a lot a lot of people on Medicare   Advantage have a PCP. They may just not   know it.   I I I'm in an HMO which I reg I have a   PCP who is not my official PCP of record   for some reason because I think he lives   too far away and uh the they can I think   they changed my PCP allegedly were   sending me new cards three times in the   last 12 months and uh you know I'm not   surprised that you know people don't   know who their official PCP is versus   the one they actually see versus a lot   of people just don't have one you know   even if   >> yeah I mean I would definitely put you   in the tech in the health literate   category and if it's confusing to you I   mean imagine   >> well I because you know you're you're   probably if you're in an HMO you're   probably being you know sent down to an   IPA which has various medical groups   within it and then they'll allocate   somebody close to you to that. I happen   to be in one medical which I know is in   the in the HMO but it's not in the HMO   in my county.   So it is covered when I go to my PCP but   they whatever reason they cannot I

cannot you know attribute myself to to   the one medical doctor I go and see.   It's bizarre, but anyway, you know, by   by the the the level of complexity   behind that is is I'm not surprised that   most people have, you know, are really   stuck. No, a lot of people just don't   have one and need one, right?   >> Yeah, absolutely.

So, we try and make it   easy, you know. I mean, it's not simple   to get an appointment, but it is also   not simple to even figure out who to   call. And um you know I mean if you talk   to health system marketing people the   conversion rate so to speak of people   coming to their website to look for a   doctor and clicking on it and making   phone calls is is horrible.

It's like if   you're lucky 5%   you don't want to run a business where   only 5% of the people who come to you   asking for a service are able to access   that service. That's pretty bad right?   Not to mention you know patients are   spending 10 20 different phone calls   being on call like waiting. So, we try   to cut out about half of that, at least   half of that busy work and try to make   it more likely that the patient's going   to reach the doctors that they need.

>> And then just basic stuff, you know,   where were your drugs sent after your   prescriptions? What were they? Um, we   spend a lot of time trying to get   patients back into the um into the uh   portal or the health system record,   right? So we know working in the   hospital and in the ER uh with all these   patients is that most of them don't have   a portal account that very few of them   and these are patients you don't want I   I believe the business term leaking out   of the health system right so from   business standpoint you want to keep   them in you want to keep them in your   network uh your hospital's network you   want to keep them coming back for   further business at a later date um you   definitely don't want that patient with   a broken wrist leaving your health   system and going to some random   orthopedic surgeon outside of your   outside of your health system. So, the   best way to do that is to keep talking   to them, make it easy for them and then   have them use the other services,   whether it's signing up for the portal,   um giving compliments to care team

members and things like that. So, that's   what we do. Part of our business model   is that system loyalty. It's I guess to   some extent no different than um the   value proposition of applications like   this in other industries, right? I mean,   it's tremendously valuable to Delta, for   example, to have an airline app that you   use while you're flying and buying other   products and stuff from them.

Um, this   is not exactly the same thing. We're not   selling you things while you're in the   hospital, but it is something that I   truly believe is valuable to patients.   And so, because they find it valuable,   we wind up with, you know, 2/3 to 75 to   85% of all patients using it. And   because of that, we're able to sort of   create downstream loyalty to the brand   of the health system and also of course   follow-up appointments and other things   like decreasing left without being seen   in operational metrics that matter. So   that's what a discharged patient would   experience.   >> This is the one now we're going to see   the one going into the going into the   hospital.   >> Yeah, I can show you that. So obviously   not all patients are discharged. uh 85%   of them are, but the for the 15% that do   stay in the hospital um on average, they   would either continue in the same   experience or if they were admitted from   outside the hospital directly to a floor   bed, let's say they were in a surgical   center or something like that. Most

people get admitted through the ER   nowadays, but not all. They would log in   a similar mechanism and then when   they're in the hospital, the feel is   different, right? It's like well, how do   how do I describe the feeling of being   in a hospital? For anyone that's not   been a patient in the hospital, it's   like just so so boring.

And there's so   much time where you're just sitting   there like what's going on around here?   But on the flip side of it, as a doctor,   nurse, or whatever in the hospital, like   you feel like you don't have any free   time. Like I wish I had an extra few   minutes to go talk to that patient, let   them know what's going on, right? So   there's a mismatch in terms of effort   and expectation.

And so what we try to   do in that case for patients and their   family members. So like once you're in   the hospital, the utilization is just as   high. But almost all those patients have   someone also following along who's not   there. So what you know like for me it   would be family members inviting me as   the family doctor and they're in   California and I'm watching what's   happening.

Right? So what we're doing in   this case I and this is this thing is   great. It's basically a single screen   where we take all the digital   information we can get out of the   electronic health record and process it   in a safe way and give it back to you as   a patient so you understand what's going   on around here in as much totality as   we're able to give it to you.

So, it's   all your notes, your orders, your   results, um everything from the history   and physical documentation to consult   notes to physical therapy notes to diet   and things like that. And we are going   to try and explain to you in a nutshell   what is going on around here and let you   have control over this information in   terms of frequency of updating it.

And   we're going to take it one step further   by suggesting to you things you could   ask the doctor. So typically we will say   generally what's wrong why you're here.   This is a real example by the way of a   patient that was admitted to the   hospital with some what sounded like   meantic thrombosis that they had to go   to the O for.

Um it's explaining what   that condition is to them in plain   language.   It's picking up things that are core   foundational diagnostics but also   subsequent things like for example   monitoring your kidney function. In this   case, the patient had an acute kidney   injury from clots in addition to the   messenteric clots.   There will be pieces of the care plan   for the day that are pulled out   automatically.

These are not things that   people are writing. These are a   combination of things we gather from   orders and um notes. So if a   cardiologist sees you in the morning and   says, you know, I want an echo   cardiogram, that would be something that   we'd be able to show the patient.   >> So the patient already said someone,   hey, you're I supposed to get an echo   cardiogram today.

Well, you'll see in there it doesn't say   like it's scheduled for 2:00 p.m.   because you know how hospitals are. It's   like could happen at any point today,   but   >> you get the day and it didn't happen.   You Hey, what happened? Oh, yes. Someone   should read the note. There's an order   for it. Yeah, I see.   >> Yeah, but I mean we should, you know,   like that's accountability that doesn't   exist right now because patients can't   see that stuff, right? Like   >> the patients don't have the power to   hold you as a as a doctor, a nurse, a   tech, whoever accountable for the things   you should be doing or that you said   you've done. you're going to do in your   notes, right? And I know that doesn't   sound right, but like we really need to   kind of flip this flip this around and   say like how can we get the patient   involved in this? The only way to   actually get the patient involved in   this is if they understand, you know,   how this is all happening behind the   scenes and like how much detail there is   to it. Um, and by the way, patients like   love this thing. They spend tons of time   in it. I mean, an average patient in the   ER spends about 30 to 35 minutes in the   application during an average length of   stay of four hours, 4 to 4 and a half

hours. So, they're in this app all the   time doing stuff, reading stuff. And the   same thing is true in the inpatient   setting. There's some different stuff in   here, quality of life things for   inpatient, which um you know are not AI   advanced AI models. They're like, "You   can order your food in here and we will   communicate that to the staff in the   kitchen um and help you understand what   you can and can't eat and whether or not   why you can't eat after midnight and   things like that." Like basic things   that you would expect.   >> You have to interface with the food   system which I guess is not part of Epic   or some other system. I guess   >> that's right. I mean, you know, like   electronic health records are a mishmash   of different software platforms that   have been rebranded. And one of those   things that hasn't really been rebranded   yet is uh are the diet order systems. Um   you know like in in the hospital the   people cooking food in the kitchen are   not looking in Epic and everyone's   chart, right? They're just getting   orders off of phone calls and things   like that. So they they call this Door   Dash for the hospital we built this for.

It's very it's very popular. I think   it's more popular amongst the people who   cook the food than it is amongst the uh   patients who order it on there. So it's   cool. They can text birectionally. So if   you order like let's say you're on a you   know like a pureed diet and you you know   you want you type you want to be funny   and you type in like a hamburger then   the staff in the kitchen can be like you   can't have a hamburger like pick   something else things like that.

So it's   very popular.   Um I guess above and beyond that there's   some redundancy with the ER product   because it's a unified experience   really. It's like a whole platform for   the acute care experience. So patients   expect to see things that they saw in   the ER. We have tests, learning items,   all still present. Looks very similar.

Um the requests are a little different   in in the inpatient setting. So in the   ER, it's like I need to talk to someone.   It could be one button in most cases,   right? In the inpatient setting, our   philosophy is keep all the low-level   requests away from the nurses,   >> right?   >> Especially the nurses.

Don't bother the   nurses, right? Or and the doctors, but   really just the nurses. And so anything   we can route to a staff member who's not   a nurse is is a task that the nurse   doesn't have to do. It's a medicine they   could administer a double check on   vitals. It's all the other things that   you need.

So we route all these things   to the right person in the hospital.   It's a completely configurable list   >> and toilet paper and temperature and all   that stuff.   >> Yeah. Like some hospitals like for   example they may have like pet   therapists that can come around and   visit. You can click the button. I call   that the paw patrol button.

It's   basically like you can, you know,   depending on when they're available, the   button will be visible to the patient   and so on and so forth. So, that's how   that works. I won't dive too much into   the staff part of the system, but it's   very simple. You just log in on a smart   device and or um like a a browser on   your virtual desktop or in in the   electronic health record itself,   whatever is easiest for your facility.

So, um, other than that, you're going to   have the same access to results, um,   education that I showed you earlier. Um,   there are   there are surveys that we do during the   visit. Um, to help people understand   kind of what's going on. I'll show you   one. This is the one from the ER. So, we   do spot.   >> Let's go back a second, Justin, that   previous screen.

The, uh, it's   populating,   >> you know, the stuff at the bottom there.   If you scroll down it the latest for you   is populating as it goes. So presumably   that changes that stuff on a   >> Yeah. Yeah.   >> basis, hourly basis whenever something   new tests come in or whatever.   >> Correct. All the above, right?   >> So yeah.

So um it tends to be hey you   know like   >> the newest thing that's happened to you   is vitals um x-ray things like that. So   okay. Yeah, it's it's very um I think I   hope that when you see this you'll get   the feeling that you're looking at   normal consumer grade software like you   would expect in any other industry   because that's how we've sort of   designed it.

It's a very different   experience than um it's intuitive. It's   sort of anticipatory and things like   that. So I hope I hope that that comes   across as you see   >> I think so. Yeah.   So, um I guess the last thing I'd like   to show you is that um we have a survey   mechanism. So, we do pride ourselves on   doing real-time service recovery um   assistance with patients and then also   staff accolades.

So, if you ask a patient, how's it going   in the hospital? Um by text message,   depending on what's happening with them,   whether it's after they've been seen in   the ER or after they've gotten back from   a MRI, you can really figure out kind of   how your hospital's working. But the   only way to figure that out is to ask   them in flight rather than three days   later when you get a HCAP survey and   you're trying to infer, you know, like   you know kind of what element of the   totality of a patient's care led to   their bad experience, right? You don't   want to be doing that. So what you do is   you ask them while they're there. Um and   the simple survey, good, bad, ugly. Um   if it's ugly, you ask them why. Take   them through this process and then you   escalate it to a staff member that can   go to the room and talk to them. That's   it. Simple. Um, we've seen dramatic   improvements in um, HCAP survey scores   when you do this. We've seen people turn   from low to high almost immediately just   by that recognition. And vice versa, if   you're

um, patients are happy, right? Um, you   can route that to people that don't   usually get positive feedback like ER   staff members. So, um, you know, like I   don't know if you if you know any ER   nurses, ask them when the last time they   got positive feedback,   >> compliment   could be   >> doctors, too.

I mean, it tends to be uh   and I I'm not making a joke about how   bad care is in the air. What I mean is   like   >> it's just so hard to get positive   reinforcement in in the in the hospital   to one person because it's like it's a   care team. Everybody's involved. If one   person's mean to the patient, then it   seems like everyone's mean.

Um, but if   somebody's really exemplary, you want to   compliment them right then and there to   reinforce that behavior and to make them   look good amongst their staff members.   And so we do that. We will, I can   guarantee fix the Google review problem   in your hospital. So the average Google   reviews in um our emergency departments   go up by one point within a couple   months.

The average emergency department   has a Google score of 2.3. So you do the   math. Some of our ERs are now in the 4.5   4.7 range because we are essentially   >> exceptional for healthcare, right? Most   most health 2.3 is quite a good rating   for the average healthcare organization.   >> Well, yeah. I mean, most most hospitals   actually have a different so you know   Google ratings are based on map   locations and actually Google separates   the hospital from the emergency   department.

So, um if you look in your   hospital, for example, or whichever one   you go to or work at, um there'll be two   different Google scores. One for the um   one for the emergency room and one for   the hospital. And so, you know, there's   no no patients have some sort of   life-threatening emergency and then they   go to hospital compare or some website   like what's the HCAP score for patient   communication at this hospital? Right?   They're going to Google Maps saying,   "Where's the nearest emergency room?"   And they're trying to figure out which   is the one that has the best scores.   Right? That's it. That's what I would   do. Um it's what most consumers would   do. And so this in this era, your um   digital presence, your digital   reputation is increasingly   um about Google. Now, it doesn't mean   that it's that doesn't mean that that's   the only thing the hospital should care   about from quality improvement and   patient experience scores and all those   things that are mandated by CMS, but um

they're just not things that patients   care about, right? So, um if you want   patients to   recognize the good care that you're   giving, you have to get that care   recognized and put out into public   sphere. So, we do do a lot of that and   uh really help hospitals with their   reputation. Um, so that's about it.

I   mean, there's more to the application. I   can answer any questions you have, but I   think   >> that's great. Why don't you why don't   you kill the sharing and we'll talk a   bit more about sort of having. So, you   along the way you've talked some about   the impact, right? So, impact in in   basically improving the patient   experience um and improving the staff   experience by taking a lot of the sort   of   >> uncertain patients and I think a lot of   this is about resolving consumer   uncertainty, resolving people's   uncertainty, you know, and and you know,   that I I I often talk uh my um Mike   McGee who uh is on THP quite a lot says   he often says that the job of a doctor   is to assuage serum worry that's what   your that's what your job is right and a   lot of this is the uncertainty you're   sitting there you're in pain you have   something going wrong you don't know   what the hell's happening next and it   takes a long time before you know you   don't even know you you you may be pushy   like me so I came here because I wanted   to get an MRI as opposed to you know   someone saying well you know we're not   sure what we're gonna do with you next

and you   Most people, I think, don't know. They   don't understand their test. They don't   understand the drugs they're on. They,   you know, that they're really concerned.   And then, you know, that's the room was   cold or whatever. I wanted to deal with   it. And I think a lot of that just, you   know, it it doesn't get done.

>> So, let's talk about the sort of state   of play of of within the ER and within   the impatient uh piece. Obviously, there   are people who are pulling up their   their their   child portal,   >> which has its moments. Um I keep on   trying to get an appointment on mine.   The last I try to get a radiology   appointment.

The only one it would offer   me uh locally via UCSF is is is a   mammogram which is probably the only one   I don't need, you know. So there are   things that you know you can and can't   do. But but in terms of the you know the   hospitals that you're in, you're talking   about pretty high percentage use in   that.

H how would for big health systems   when you go to try and sell this stuff?   Um, does it tend to be that they'll buy   it enterprise systemwide or do you have   to go in sort of block by block and   fight by ER by ER and convince the the   lower level staff to to get this or is   there kind of more a sort of systemwide   understanding that we've got to do   something about our experience across   our 5 10 15 30 hospitals whatever it is.

>> I mean that's an awesome question. I   think that if you asked anyone in the   health tech SAS space where they're   selling to IDN's or large health   systems, um they would all say, "Yes, I   have an enterprise solution. I'm walking   in and cutting a deal across all the   emergency departments.

" And we have   gotten to that space now. So, we're   starting to do that as a company. We   have a few large contracts, but   historically, we would um you know, when   we were smaller and we didn't have uh as   large of a customer base. I mean, we're   a um   you know, probably about 150 hospitals   by the end of the year, maybe more, and   over 20 health systems.

And um when we   were smaller, especially in the   post-pandemic period when everyone was   scared about everything, um we might   come in and do one emergency room and   prove value and then it would expand out   to other emergency rooms. We built the   inpatient product uh after the ER1. So,   we built the ER1 first.

Um, probably   because I'm an ER doctor, but also   because we kind of when Erin and I were   sitting around ideulating on this, we   thought, all right, we're going to try   and fix patient communication in the   hospital or in healthcare in general.   Where is the area of maximum entropy   where we can use new tools, AI, natural   language processing the best? I was   like, I know where there's some   problems.

I can find I know where that   place is.   >> What do they tell authors? Write about   what you know.   >> Yeah. No, it's exactly our docs becoming   software execs. Yes, you know, fix fix   what you know about. So, we're all   trying to get back to Indianapolis.   >> It's still it's still so it's getting   there system systemwide.

I mean, do you   think do you think the sea suite of the   system not just the individual hospital   and not just the EODs are recognizing   that this kind of consumer retention,   consumer stage, consumer experience is   now, you know, a big deal. It's on their   radar.   >> Absolutely. Yeah. I mean the I have also   seen a w I've also witnessed an   evolution in the way that um the seauite   the CFOs CTO's think about software   investments over the last 10 years.

I   mean we've all seen the market shift and   ehrs and things like that but   >> um you know   you you hear a lot of people say that   health systems don't want to invest in   point solutions they want to invest in   EHRs or they want to invest in um whole   enterprisewide solutions that solve all   their problems in one place for the sake   of parsimony frankly you know you talk   to most CTOs and they're like I got   1,200 pieces of software bolted onto my   EHR and like it's just too chaotic and   it's too risky.

And I totally understand that. So um to   that extent we are we try and and have   been lately selling our software to   whole systems solutions for throughout   the acute care experience whenever   possible. So I don't know if I've   answered your question exactly. No, I   think I think it makes sense and you   know and I think you know that there's   there's a question which no one knows   the answer to yet which is does the next   generation of sort of AI tools and   you've got someone obviously built in to   what you're doing. Yeah.   >> Does it go to the point where you know   where one AI tool can basically read   into uh read into the the EMR into   whatever the database is and and the lab   system or whatever and figure out   whatever happens to happen next. And   there's a ton of things happen next.   Someone for patients, some for doctors,   some for admin, some of them for   billing, all the rest of it. And I think   you've got, you know, some of these   companies who are raising a gazillion   dollars like the ambient scribes or some

of the sort of some some of the uh   interface systems, the innovations of   the world and the commuters and the   ambience   and the bridges who are kind of going,   okay, well, now we've got our finger in   one pie, we got to think stick our   finger in seven seven or eight pies. Um   and there's a natural uh you know my   opin my commentary on there's a natural   uh tendency for them to go that's a   great idea but by the way you know if   somebody's doing one thing really well   like we're managing the patient   experience in the ER and the acute uh   the acute setting it's likely to do   something much better and by the way   probably can go in and grab the same   data and you know some of that comes   down to the technical question of does   the CTO have to build another interface   and if the answer is you've kind of   built it for them or that the APIs are   there surfaced, it's probably not as   hard. And I honestly think that the most   hosts are now sort of seem to be jumping   in and trying a bunch of this different   stuff. They're also building, you know,   the bigger ones are building all the   stuff internally. You see Stanford keeps   on coming out with that new thing that   they built using anthropic, you know,

every couple of months. And and I think   that that will continue to play on. But   I think for now the business people are   going we have a problem in various   areas. We we have to fix it. Which is   probably why you've you know seen the   growth you had. So if you were to to   take take a different you said you have   you have 20 systems 150 hospitals   there's what 150 big systems in the   country 150 systems of some description   in the in the country and probably more.

How many of them have got something like   you or something like better than how   much green field is there and how much   are you doing you know five people kind   of doing this already?   >> Uh you know to be perfectly honest with   you I haven't seen anyone else doing   exactly or even similar to this.

uh they   tend to be uh   >> there are people with kind of intake   systems like treasure you know   >> yeah there are people   >> there are a bunch of pieces that are   somewhat got some of this somewhere you   can imagine could expand your direction   you have people who who are trying to do   you know um patient messaging across   their journey like I think   >> lumin yeah care coordination type stuff   yeah   >> I would I would say that um in the   in this to do this well to help patients   understand what's going on in their   care. You have to be deeply integrated   in the electronic health record. And the   vast majority of companies that are   doing this are kind of like   um nipping around the edges of it,   right? So they're going to one specific   area whether it's oncology coordination,   things like that, and or leveraging the   lack of data that they're receiving by   forcing people to do things, right? So   like we know this is a it may be

triggered off a simple ADT connection,   but we're going to make the nurse in the   clinic program this pathway for breast   cancer, etc., etc. And that may be a   wonderful tool. It's not really the   space we're in, right? We're not in the   um pure customization space. In fact, I   never want my software to create one   more thing for staff members to do   unless they literally ask me three times   and say, "I really want you to put a   button in here to tell me to go talk to   the patient.

" Right? Which is why we   have that button in our app. So we don't   do um extremely complicated bespoke um   care pathway type work even though I   think it's extremely important but um   I'd say that there there have been a few   companies that have um touched in the   acute care space in the past. There was   a company called ease that was acquired   by Striker.

They did um o based   communication. It was extremely staff   intensive like staff had to have iPads   and take pictures and stuff like that.   Um it I'm not sure if they are around   anymore, but I kind of liked what they   were doing. It's sort of the opposite of   what we do. Um but it was uh sort of in   inflight communication, which I think is   really important in the acute care   setting.

And then of course there's um my chart   bedside, which is a um a platform that   some hospitals um have tried to use to   help patients understand what's going on   with their care in the hospital. Um, and   I won't say anything more about that,   but that's a thing that exists.   >> I mean, there there is there is, you   know, there is the constant fear is I   know it's these old Microsoft FUDs, the   uncertainty and doubt.

You know, Epic is   now talking about, oh, we're going to   we're going to all these different   things and we're going to use AI to do   everything. I'm still not sure about,   you know, they have partnered with   specific companies around AI. They   obviously have this big relationship   with Microsoft. They have, you know,   they're talking about all the things   they're going to do.

And I think half of   healthcare is hoping that um half of you   know also is hoping that Epic will just   build all these products and don't have   to worry about anything else. And the   other the other half is going we know   they're never going to do that or the   thing they're going to build is going to   be any good you know.   >> Yeah.

 I mean that's true but you know at   the end of the day we are I wouldn't say   that we are competing with Epic but   there's a reason why you know um   Microsoft Teams has 20 times the users   that Slack does right it's sort of this   sunk cost fallacy and sort of it's not a   better product but it it's free it's   already there   >> it's already there and you know   >> yeah yeah   >> we'll we'll we'll we'll see how that   goes and you know I think there's a that   whole, you know, Epic's entire thing   which keeps on changing its name, used   to be Apple Orchard and it became   Marketplace, now it's workshop and there   different levels of partnerships and all   this kind of stuff is is uh I mean there   are very few people there Brendan Keer   and about three other people can keep up   with it and figure out what's actually   going on in in that but they're clearly   you know they they are sitting there in   such a big monopolistic position they   also have to be worried about that   position right because you know gi given   how much you know progress they've made

in the last few years how the few big   competitors to them have got out you   know basically they'd be you know people   like UPMC and into mountain who had   other alternatives and now all gone to   them as well it's you know they have to   be careful about what they're doing and   they traditionally have been quite   aggressive about um where they've gone   and they have to think about you know   other companies but to me there are   still more and more people trying to   sell into hospital systems um of   different forms of technology and   there's a bunch of stuff that you know   needs to be fixed um that could be done   with software and it's just the job of   the hospital to to figure out especially   and that's just within the hospital and   then you start thinking about all the   linkages they're doing out to you know   people like me discharge and unable to   figure out where to how to get an   appointment with a specialist. I just   did a a video about this a few a few   days ago about being discharged from   well not being discharged but being a   you know going to carry a primary care   and trying to find a dermatologist you   know within the blue shield network and   that's still you know a mess that   someone needs to fix. But anyway now

we're getting more that's that's the   golden goose of uh access and   appointments and all that is that's the   golden goose. I I um but yeah, I think   what what I've encountered talking to   lots of different health systems um   around the country of different sizes   that um you know whether they're on   Epic, Cerner, Medat, whatever is that um   there are always people looking for a   way to do better and to and especially   in some competitive markets to look   better than their competitors, but just   in general trying to achieve excellence.   And so, um, it's a it's a nice thing to   be able to deliver a solution that in my   opinion really puts the patient first,   right? It's like I think that the reason   we're able to get the results that we   have with regard to follow-up revenue,   that's one of the things that health   systems like brand loyalty, decrease   operational sort of problems like live   without being seen and whatnot, is   because we're like giving the patients   something they want, you know? But we're

not just like texting them and saying   like, "Hey, we don't want you to leave   the ER, you know, please don't leave the   ER, right? We don't do that. We, you   know, we say, hey, you know, what do you   want to know? It's your weight times.   It's your lab results. You want to help   understand it.

" So, you know, I'm I'm   proud of what we built and my team is   like very innovative, creative group.   So, they're very dedicated to what we're   working on and I think it's a cool   solution. So,   >> right. Um, let's end with just sort of   quick wrap up of the company. You're how   many people   Uh we have about 48 I think as of today.

>> So around 50. And you raised how much   over and when was the last time you   raised?   >> Uh we went through a B um and that was   uh a few years ago. So   >> a couple of years back. So and then and   then uh the the the the obvious question   is what else do you have to add to this   or do you have to figure out a place to   go live as a venture back company? what   what I mean there are other areas that   you're probably have to expand into and   obviously you said   >> you sold 20 health systems we think   there's another 100 you can go sell to   so you have to do there but you know   >> what what do you think the next sort of   steps for the company are   >> oh man there are so many things we could   do I think um we have a I won't say who   it is but one of our brilliant um uh   venture capital uh investors said   companies like yours don't um you know   die of starvation and die of indigestion   after the buffet. And I think it's   >> it's true. It's like where where   shouldn't we go is probably the best   answer there. I mean, if you you know,

it's it's probably the same question   that all the or at least moderately or   very successful ambient scribe companies   have, which is like we have the tech, we   have the access, we have people's   attention now for once in the last 5   years, right? And where could we go? And   um what my heart tells me to do is to go   towards the patients.

So away from   billing um you know not that that's a   bad thing necessarily but one of the   things we always put in front of our   ideas is is this thing in the best   interest of the patient or is it just   something the hospital is asking us to   do. So my suspicion is that we're going   to go more towards personal   personalization of the visit.

So it's   not just how long are you waiting your   lab results help you understand your lab   results. It's actually get to know you   Matthew Hold like I need to know what   makes you tick. I need to help you help   the doctors help you by helping with   that birectional communication. That's   that's my guess.

And then we're going to   probably from there get into all the   things that interpersonal interactions   can affect in healthcare. I mean, it's   all the I would I won't just bucket in   SDO. It's all the out of the hospital   stuff that really matters in terms of   healing. So,   >> it's that kind of stuff.   >> Ton you could do there.

There's a ton in   the sort of outpatient world. There's a   ton in the outpatient referral world. I   mean, yeah, energy set, but on the other   hand, as a as a company that's   relatively small, you have to focus on,   you know, there are the other hundred   systems we haven't sold it to yet. So,   probably probably should go do that   first.

>> Well, yeah, of course. I want to sell I   want to sell the software to as many   health systems as possible so I can keep   working on it and building it, but I   think um you know, we're we're always   building. So, we're very product.   So, yeah, we don't lack for ideas. It's   more just time.   >> That's great.

Well, that's a good place   to be. All right. I've been talking with   Justin Shaker. He is the chief medical   officer of Vital Vital.io. You'll find   him on the web. And having hopefully   you've sat through this, you've got a   pretty good idea of of how they're   improving the patient experience. And uh   something that I've been saying for at   least 25 years is a good idea.

We should   be improving the patient experience.   >> Justin, thanks for your time. Thanks for   coming on and showing us the Matthew. I   appreciate it.
















