Title: K Health, Ran Shaul
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6FwF_gVDWk8
Language: en
Duration: 00:59:17
Upload Date: Sep 17, 2026

Transcription:

[music]  Hi, it's Matthew Hull with the  Healthcare Blog, another of THTV  Spotlight with a tech company that  somehow I have not had on THTV before,  even though they've been doing great  work in the world of patient interaction  for several years now and actually got  pretty big market presence. This is Ran  Shaw.

He is the chief product officer  and one of the co-founders of K Health,  which started out a long time ago as one  of those several symptom checkers, but  has moved on, as you'll see in this  interview, a long way from there. Ryan,  thanks for coming on TCP.  Thank you for having me. Pleasure, Matt.  Well, so uh I'm looking forward to this  because uh speaking as a guy who, as  many of my readers know, has spent a lot  of time dealing with the big large  language models and putting my data into  it and uh trying to figure out what to  do about all my various ailments. Um  this is uh this is something that you  guys have basically worked on  extensively with your different uh your  different tools. But just before we get  into that, take me back to the  beginning. How did Kel start? What was  the first problem that you were going  after and then how has it evolved?  Well, surprisingly we did not start from  a healthcare problem. We started from a  medicine problem. We talking about nine

years ago now. So when I think about it,  me and my co-founder were discussing  where is an opportunity to apply data  and algorithm to just do better make  better decisions. My career, this is my  first company were always around the  intersection of human behavior and  analytics and data. And through the  years, the algorithms got better and  better.

And we obviously hit on the  questions like when you have a symptom,  when you're feeling not well, all us  seven billion people in the world are  asking the same things. What is it?  What else could it be? because you want  to rule out the bad stuff and then how  do I treat it and those three questions  were the foundation question that Kelv  put in its mission to provide knowledge  to the people that is highly accurate  and prec and precise and personalized  for their for their condition.

So that's  really the evolution and where we  started from.  So that manifested I when I first ran  into you guys that manifested as pretty  much a symptom checker which is what it  sound sounds like. Um and then uh there  were at that stage if I recall there  were a lot of symptom checkers almost  all of them not from the US.

I remember  a whole bunch from Europe and and uh  Germany and elsewhere and a lot of them  were sort of I wouldn't say sort of  whlaid. I'm not sure I don't want to  bmerge all your competitors. A lot of  them were ran into trouble when in 2022  there was this sort of revolution and  this thing all called what we now know  now know as a transformer emerged.

Um  obviously which became the first one and  now a whole bunch of them and they're  all coming from China and god knows  what. And obviously that changed the way  people think about how how do humans  interact with machines? Um how do humans  interact with with computers and very  quickly a lot of people started using  that for healthcare.

So how did that  either change or how were you working  around that issue when uh when that  happened?  Well, fortunately fortunately we started  Kel by building a proprietary language  model before anyone knew what language  model is. So those symptom checker you  are describing were actually using a  decision tree or different techniques in  order to mimic a decision process a  clinical decision process.

We took 400  million doctor notes and turned them  into a proprietary language model that  new you know today as a transformer we  were using NLP and transformer  technology well before so when the a  growth of LLM happened and charg was  announced it's actually accelerated  our position in the market using those  types of algorithms and we could also O  gone through a massive education because  imagine us going and explaining to the  average person that this is not a  typical symptom checker.

This is  actually a machine that thinks before  everybody knew and understand how CHA  GPT was basically able to educate  everyone. So we got a lot of momentum  from that and we were able to fairly  expand and we think we strongly believe  that we have a strong moat around that  idea of how we develop the initial  algorithm and the clinical validity of  it and we also did studies and  peerreview study which I think it's  important in healthcare maybe in other  industries you can be as okay in the 95%  of the cases but in healthcare you  cannot allow 5% mistake because that  mistake is going to be highly costly. So  we believe that the rig and the ability  to tie that also with our business model  which is running a care delivery  company. So I like to think of myself  also as an AI company but also as a  clinical company because we operate care  allows us to get to that level of of of

safety and that level of accuracy that  requires in healthcare.  So let's expand on that point as to what  you're doing and why you're a little bit  different. uh you have a whole lot of  now and I don't know and I know  originally it was a lot of work with uh  Anthem Eleanance what they call that  company now [laughter]  and several players I think you were  fair relatively early on in you had a  deal with Cedars and I believe Mayo and  some others a lot more now but what is  the role why why do they need you what  is the role of K health or patient GPT  or your flagship product within those  organizations  So trust of all of them does not starts  with I need an AI. They start with I  need access. I simply do not have a way  to serve and keep up in the demand of my  patient population. And you see that in  primary care which we started we now  expanding to endocrine. You see that in

hospitals. You see that in all across  and this idea of I'm going to give  hospitality service in medicine which is  hospital systems to the mass population  the way I did it before it just not  scaling. There's not enough doctors.  Everybody is fatigued. There is a lot of  o overload on the system and all of that  stuff.

So they come to us and says can  can we rearchitect care delivery? And  our design partners were Cedar Sana and  Mayo Clinic that we actually started  with them with primary care and we built  an AI that is part of your care team  which is drastically different as a  standalone system and that's a key  point. We actually layering the AI  between you and your provider in such a  way that you when you actually meet your  provider you meet the right provider  because remember sometimes you go to an  endocquin you don't need to go there you  actually need a primary care something  primary care doesn't have and then you  go to the specialist also so there's a  lot of people confusing in the system  match you to the right provider take the  entire history taking it's called we  call it the AI intake dynamic intake but  this ability to interview you very  specific specifically like a resident  will do. a good resident say hey I want  to meet you Ron what's you doing what's  going on you've been having this

headache for a while how long you've  been what exactly are the symptoms and  all of that and hand it over to a  clinician to make the final diagnosis  for you so you're getting the best of  both world you feel empowered as a  patient you're feeling heard but  eventually a human comes and make that  final decision and this will evolve and  I'm a great believer that AI will not  replace doctors I want to tell you  something I think AI will replace what  doctor do which is different than  replacing the human component. I think  we're going to get the best of it. So  the first problem they come to us is can  we increase access and we operate 247  virtual primary care service with inside  the hospital. They own the doctors. They  we own the technology. We build a  service line that now in 10 health  systems is running around the clock and  giving service for people access to  primary care and expanding now to  endocrine in other markets.  All right. So why don't we take a look  at what that actually looks

like uh in  real life. You've got a few uh a few examples that you can bring up some some  sort of can videos you can show us of  the the uh the examples. So why don't  you uh explain  what does it what show me and explain to  me a little bit about what we're about  to see and what this looks like in real  life. In this demo I would like to show  how an experience with inside a health  system with patient GPT powered by K  health for patients.

So we will see a  patient entering the product.  Patients have questions between visits.  What if the answers were actually  personalized to them and their medical  history? The moment a patient connects  through their health systems portal,  patient GPT knows their conditions,  their medications, and their full  clinical context in real time.

Patients  often have specific medical questions,  but don't know where to turn for  accurate information. Patient GPT serves  as a reliable, clinically validated, and  personalized source of knowledge within  their medical record.  Rather than rely on traditional methods  of triage and asynchronous messages,  patient GPT works as part of the care  team, instantaneously guiding patients  on actionable next steps.

When symptoms  emerge, patient GPT shifts from  answering questions, structured intake,  validating the concern, never dismissing  or guessing, and gathering targeted  clinical context directly from the  patient. That history is then surfaced  to their provider before the visit so  care can move forward, not start over.  Finding the answer is hard.

Connecting  to care can be harder. Patient GPT  bridges both, giving patients instant,  accurate, and personalized health  information while serving as a trusted  advocate and a seamless entry point  within their own health system.  Okay. So, in that there was quite a lot  going on, right? So, uh you clearly got  the uh you you've got the the the  connection into the medical record.

So,  this is within the firewall of a of a of  one of your clients probably running  Epic or whatever. Um so let's start  start with the the first part. Um where  are you where are you where and how are  you picking up all the uh patient data?  So health system are placing it right  inside the patient portal.  Yep.  And we know many patients are getting  lost in the portal.

They don't know  where to go. They're looking for  different answers. They usually end up  with sending an inbasket message that is  not that fast. They probably take three  days to respond. So now they have a new  button there and they basically can  click on that. It's called patient GPT.  Yeah.  And as soon as they get in their entire  medical record is also there.

So there's  no need to upload or connect any data  externally or to hand it to any other  company. It's right there. Their medical  record. Patient GPT reads everything.  Like when I say everything, everything  it reads your encounter, your detailed  mamogram results, your doctor notes, we  we allow it to basically goes and  understand your your patient history.

It  does not touch anything psychiatry or  mental healthwise. But regardless of  that, it has access to all of that  information. So  is that just in the me is that just in  the the one system that you're within or  is it going off to do the equivalent of  care everywhere or hitting hitting  hitting the HIE for for more data?  At this moment it's only hitting the  health system.

Hitting the HI requires  another verification by the provider  which we which we were going to get  touch on later.  Okay.  But that gives the that gives our sets  of patient GPT a highly grounded medical  record that all the interaction can work  with. The second part we like to think  about patient GPT is this idea that  there is a human in the loop mindset for  the algorithm.

The algorithm is not  trying to satisfy you by giving you an  answer. It's trying to understand what  are you trying to achieve. And as you  saw in this example, you ask a question  that has a knowledge component. Why I'm  in a certain medication. So we gave you  this medication is for this and that.  But we also realize that through that  clinical question, you actually seeking  care. You want to know something else.

So patient GPT  transform from a giving you answers to  asking you questions and then leading  you and connecting you to care closing  the loop on your request right there and  then which in the real world you have  gone you have copy paste your  information you went to one of those  LLMs you got the answer there maybe you  got the answer back you copy paste back  and send back to your doctor to do  something with it.

It's not part of the  continuum that we have created here.  I I understand that makes a lot of sense  and you know yes that's clearly an issue  with the uh the current LLMs and  communication with uh communication in  general forget LLM or not communication  in general with whole systems is not as  smooth as it might be.

We can we can we  can go to that go to that later. That's  cool. But that's great but that's like  only one part. So, why don't you go to  the uh to to the next um little video  demo and we'll we'll take a look at this  because there's there's a lot more that  you guys have built.  Thank you. Let's see the second one  here.  Introducing Health Checkin in inatient  GPT.

A clearer way for patients to  understand their medical record before  the next visit.  Health check reviews available record  across labs, medications, screenings,  conditions, and care history. It looks  for what appears on track, what may need  followup, and what preventive care may  be worth confirming.  Then it turns that review into a plain  language health check organized around  what matters most.

The report starts with the big picture,  the main health themes from the record  before the patient gets into the  details.  Next, patients see what appears on  track, results, screenings, and care  items that look improved, stable, or  documented in the available record. Each  card is explainable.

Patients can open a  finding to see the evidence behind it,  values, dates, trends, and what it  means. And when they have a question,  they can ask about that specific card  without leaving the report. Patient GPT  opens a focused chat beside the health  check grounded in that finding and the  patient's record.  For follow-up items, health check shows  what the record says, why it may matter,  and what to ask the provider.

For  preventive care, it handles uncertainty  carefully. Some items may already be  done. They just are not clearly  documented.  The report then becomes a visit agenda,  focused questions, and next steps for  the patients next care conversation.  From there, patients can book a 247  online health check visit or share the  report with their PCP through Epic.

The goal is to turn the health check  into a care plan and keep improving over  time.  So, how does the uh how does the health  check get alerted? So, if I'm is this me  just getting a text from my health the  health system saying, "Hey, there's a  new message for you inatient GPT. Go  take a look."  Uh that's actually a really good  question because when we started the  patient GPT we were tracking what people  are asking and we were ve I was very  surprised I thought people are going to  ask what's this medication  what's this lab what to do here which  they are asking but the prominent  question was can you take a look at my  record and tell me how can I be  healthier that was the predominant most  popular way of people interacting with  patient GPT. So we turn it to an

invitation. The health system are  emailing and texting their patients  inviting them to say hey patient GPT  already looked at your record. You can  have a conversation about your medical  situation. You can verify, you can  understand it, you can learn it and then  it will help you prepare an agenda that  you can speak to your provider about.

So  we want to really think about health  care not as seeker, not as being  reactive to your question but help you  to think about it and I believe this is  going to be a more engaging way to get  people activated about thing that they  need to you know health system are  spending a lot of time and money calling  people and chasing them what's your  blood pressure have you done your  colonoscopy where's your mamogram what's  your A1C we call them care gap in our  industry But helping people understand  why A1C is important and how they are  trending with their condition that in  this way is in my mind more engaging and  more likely that to create an action  with patients.  Yeah, that that patient was doing pretty  well. Their A1C went down by about down  a ton. They must have they're taking a  lot I think  she's doing well this patient.  Yeah, those GOP ones are all magic. Um,  no I I get it and that makes a lot of

sense and I think you know that this is  a presumably a thing that can self-  sustain right so you can do regular  check-ins from the from the point of  view of the of the health system and  proactively reach out to patients um and  I suspect do you have any data on  whether this is bumping up things like  you know regular visits to doctors or  regular check-ins or you know medication  uh compliance you know does any is it  working yet or is it too soon to  It does very well.

I want to tell you  first of all we are overwhelmed by the  usage by the show usage of people like  we actually without even invite in  inviting people  this is the first button that actually  people using in the product when we get  them to come and we also see that  significant amount follow up on care.  They schedule appointment, they speaking  to their providers and they're taking  action on this.

So this gives me a lot  of encouragement that we're driving  action here.  And what's the I I don't know the data I  should I don't know the data on this as  to what even the the typical response to  a typical my chart message if someone's  in the system has got a my chart what  the typical response to a my chart  message is.

I it's probably pretty high  I would think because it's usually  something the patient wants to do. Do do  you have a sense about what the response  to the outbound messages here is? How  many people are coming coming back and  and using the tool after they've been  invited?  Yeah. Um a typical response for us is uh  quite high.

My those communications are  people consider them not marketing which  is a good thing.  Yeah. and you've been invited by your  portal and by your clinical team in  Hartford Healthcare which are designed  partner for all of this patient GPT. We  use actually the name of the provider  your provider to call you which is  basically the provider invitation makes  a big difference here and we see in  every any given day half of our users  actually return 10 users.

So a very  strong indication that there is multiple  users here on different days with this  with this product.  Okay, that makes a lot of sense. Let's  go to the next one because I think this  is the one where you're going to uh show  us this more as quote unquote marketing.  Getting care usually starts with a wall  of choices, a grid of service tiles, a  message that waits 2 days for an answer.

I think lunch sounds more fun than a  lung cancer.  Where care begins. Right on Novant  Health's website, anyone can just ask,  should I get a lung cancer screening? A  real question, the kind anyone might  type into a search bar. But this isn't a  search engine. Patient GPT recognizes  what's being asked and starts working  out the right care.

Behind the scenes,  every conversation runs on one  configurable source of truth defined  with Novant's clinical leadership that  governs exactly what patient GPT can and  can't do. Nothing improvised, everything  auditable. Lowdo CT screening guidance  based on age and smoking history. Clear  enough to act on, careful enough to  trust. No waiting 2 days for a reply.

Answers arrive in seconds at any hour.  And there's always a path to a clinician  when the conversation calls for one one  conversation from the first question  toward the right care.  Okay. So, so that's uh um that's  marketing in a good way, right? that's  driving someone who doesn't know a  primary care doctor who's got a issue  with whatever they lung cancer or  whatever whatever they think they have,  you know, to to to to get into the  system and start ask start asking  questions.

It it is but it also m it's like it's a  big problem for health system. They call  it the digital front door.  Sure.  They have a website, people coming,  people calling the call center. It's not  typical to direct person patient to the  right care because it's a clinical  decision. It's not like in other  industry that you have a service  question, you go here, you have a  billing question, you go there.

When you  have a question like that, for example,  this patient does not have a primary  care, but you can have a cardiologist,  you can have a remottologist. Where is  the right point of care that we need to  give you under this patient GPT? We  develop a policy document which is a  plain English proprietary document that  guard rails the AI where to send patient  based on that logic that is specific to  that health system which is not one size  fit all model.

It's a quite big  differentiator and health system are  really liking the idea that they can  influence the behavior of what the AI  will say. I can give you an example of  other health system that in this case  they will direct the patient for lung  cancer directly to a different line of  service because they have a different  setup in that local and that's why hyper  this is where a lot of tech companies  needs to understand the healthcare is  super hyper local.

It's not one size fit  model that everything is going to work  the same across the board.  Yeah. And uh you can read up on my or we  anyone who hasn't done so can read up on  my sixpart investigation of how to get  to the right cardiologist  and I [clears throat] can assure you  very many health systems don't have  anything like [laughter] this available  to to get to so you know that you have  more sales to go to.

Funny enough, I did  end up with Cedars, which didn't use  something like this in its in the bit in  cardiology I was going to. But but uh  you know, the effort involved on the  patient of trying to figure out where to  go or if even if they know where to go,  trying to get in touch with them to get  an appointment is large.  [laughter]  So, so that's a that's a that's that's a  sidebar.

But you did you did mention one  thing as part of this and let's go back  to this which is which is interesting in  nuance which is that when you go back to  like the old days right Mayo Clinic and  Cleveland Clinic wrote up you mentioned  WebMD you know wrote up sort of  healthwise and others wrote up you know  here's the answer for this and you can  still go to the Mayo Clinic website or  the Cleveland Clinic website and you  know if you say I have this condition  it'll say okay here are the symptoms

here's the diagnosis here's the  treatment plan it's generic for  everybody right um somewhere where in  the bowels of those organizations,  right, there was a clinical team that  blessed and said, "Yes, this is what we  Cleveland Clinic think about this  particular uh thing thing." If you've  got like you mentioned, no one like says  this is our view. This is our our view,  but it's coming through, you know, our  our approved  our approved uh performance as it were,  our approved  process, approved process.  How do you get it to agree to that when  underlying it is an LM? um which

presumably doesn't have complete you  don't have complete control of what it  says at all times and how it responds to  everything. How how how do you manage  that sort of signoff process with these  organizations?  Not using an LLM LLM as you can see at  the top line manage the conversation but  underline when you need a discrete  decision we actually use different  techniques.

Okay,  it's a set of agent that has actually  classifiers that are trained for  precision which is very different from a  generative model. We're using a  discriminative model. The generative  model is the one that manage the  conversation with you and flow and  everything. But when that generative  model saying okay somebody is asking me  a question about lung cancer it goes to  a different model we call them tools in  the architecture and says hey tool would  you mind create an investigation with  this patient what does it even mean to  have a lung cancer screening is he has  and then that tool start thinking about  well who is this patient is he has a  smoking history does he has a primary  care and he goes and engage you and that  tool rings brings back the result to  another agent that now need to figure  out okay no primary care history of  smoking what are the next step to do and  that's actually a classifier that works

in the background so this is what I'm  talking about the architecture of agents  that is not just one model that runs on  that stuff and the overseeing you're  seeing eventually is as a as a as a LL  model  and then how do you in the back end when  you work work with a health system how  do you get And how do you come together  and approve sort of what it's going to  say and how that's going to work?  All everything has to be a study health  system.

The good thing I like about this  category is like you cannot just fake it  at you make it. It has to work. It has  to work. You know other industry you can  do right. They are looking at the  studies. We published two of them with  the peer-reviewed uh studies. Not just  study that you want to put on the open  web.

You have to go through the scrutiny  of investigating and all of that stuff.  We did one recently in the annals of  internal medicine in last April was very  very important study for us because  actually when I come speak to web system  they already refer to that study that  study was an idea that we started  develop and we're actually losing  clinical encounter which is the second  thing studying an AI with vignette is  one thing that you put couple of 30  people and then you have doctors playing  around and then publish and looking at  results in a clinical setting is a very  different thing and That's again going  back to unique of K being an AI company  but also operating patients and the  reason we are learning so so well is  because our reinforcement learning is  ability to learn from actual behavior.  Imagine that person goes to lung cancer  screening meet the PCP and the PCP say I  don't think I don't need to see you you  need to be seen by someone else. that

data goes back to reinforcement learning  for our ability to punish the model in  some respect and iterate on the future  of that. So that's part of the health  system flow that we we present and and  becomes part of their validation  process.  So that makes that makes a lot of sense  and that's great that you have that kind  of level of of of rigor in there.

um how  do you interact with the uh the data  then that is going back into Epic or  whatever the other EMR system is, you  know, how do you how you getting that  data back into K health to build out and  and round out the model? Is is there  just a uh uh is there just a way that  you're reading the notes? I mean, how  close are you getting to how some of the  other tools in the in when we mentioned  this before we started recording like  the ambient scribe world and some of  these other tools where they're where  they're looking at data for clinical  decision support. How much of that are  you having to build and and do in order  to make your front end digital front  door work?  We have to we have to uh integrate it  well with the EMR system. So, those are  standard APIs. EMR has gotten better  through the years. You can basically  send all of that information in a into  an encounter as simple as that and then  the physician will pick it up from there

which is very efficient in that respect.  I also want to tell you that we develop  a set of agents that are independent  from this main AI I showed you. We call  them for the lack of a better name we  call them a judge. Why? because all of  their purpose is to look at the main  agents and just to make a judgment call  on the AI agent performance.

So we  actually provide that data in real time.  I believe this is going to be one of the  and this is my prediction. I think this  is going to be the path forward as far  as medical device because I think the  concept of medical device in AI will not  survive. It's just not it's not a  medical device. It's not a device.

It's  an everchanging device. So I think the  ability to what we call post deployment  monitoring will be a really good way of  interacting and measuring ongoing  performance and safety.  Great. I think that's  an area that people are really figuring  out and I think that's that's a great  explanation and obviously regulation of  this stuff um is is connected to that  but also uh patient trust in in  [clears throat] what it's going to say.

So Ran, there's one thing I've been uh  sort of not puzzled with, but wrestling  with. Um, go back to 2000. I was in a  personal health record company. You're  you're too young, but back in back in  the day, they were like even  drcoupe.com, the first sort of internet  star website for which went out of  business.

Was going to be a personal  health record site that's going to bring  all your records together and answer all  your questions. And we're still  struggling with that, right? Even if you  look if you use the uh I was in a  personal health record company went out  of business in 2001. If you look, you  know, my chart is kind of a list of  transactions really.

Um, [clears throat]  doesn't really put it together in a  useful format for you. Um,  what's your sense about how the LLMs and  patient GGT are going to like rearrange  all this knowledge for a helpful ongoing  record for somebody who's got going for  a treatment program. Are you working on  that?  Chronic management  in between visit we call it today.

this  idea that okay, you seen your provider  and now you have a 10page document that  you need to follow up. There's three  steps that you need to do. You need to  remind yourself on the calendar when to  do it. Half of the stuff you didn't  understand because you know the  conversation still was overloading with  a lot of information you need especially  when you have a new diagnosis and there  is a care team that needs to call you up  and remind you all of that.

We believe  that entire area of chronic management  is actually up for a revolution  significantly and we think that the AI  will become a part of the team care  member simply being that area that you  can go and ask everything about your  diagnosis. all the models for education  out there. You'll be surprised but  people with diabetes they don't know  what is it and they don't know what to  do it and they don't know how to measure  it and they don't know how to cope with  it and there's a lot of aspects like  that and we saw that with the GLP and

everything how everybody got become  educated about now everybody knows how  to but it takes time to to do that and  we think that the AI will be your  companion it will remind you it will put  you nudges it will connect to all your  devices a lot of people now have devices  but those devices are outside of the  system again they're not connecting it  necessarily back to your medical record.  So, it's going to provide you that. But  the most important part is it will

connect it to escalation of care, which  means that you can manage your  condition, but it will be smart enough  to tell you, hey, hey, wait a second,  Ron. Something is spiking in your blood  pressure now and something is not  uncontrolled. Let's look at deeper and  see what happened. So you can be what I  consider to be faster to act compared to  what you are today when you need to wait  for your next six months appointment  with your cardiologist to manage your  hypertension.

So that's how we think  about revolutionizing all of this area  around chronic or in between management  of patients.  Yeah. What do you think the UX for that  is going to be? I want to ask you two  things about UX. is like right now ch  and and anthropica are claw are a wall  of text right um and there's a lot of  data in there and they can presumably  represent it in different ways you can  also charts and graphs but they don't  come back and show you you know like a  dashboard and we've seen people building  dashboards in healthcare both for  patients and for doctors and  administrators for many years and and  you'd think they'd be pretty useful but  they don't really appear in in the uh in  the in the models. Um, so is that a  place where you guys are going or have  gone or have already built or h you know  when I log in, how am I going to be able  to figure out what's going on rather  than go back and read the text?  Yeah, I I think I think um graphic  illustration but a simple version of

that will be very important.  I think also voice is very important. I  think you're going to see much more  animated elements that explain better as  an educational material. All of those  things are going to evolve in order to  explain those complicated areas. You'll  be surprised, but reading your A1C chart  over the last,  let's call it five years.

Understanding  the trend and understanding the baseline  compared to the trend and understanding  your baseline compared to the population  baseline is not a simple task for many  people. It's not a simple task and A1C  could be one number but some people just  have a higher blood pressure. Is that  necessarily bad thing? Depends depends  on who they are.

Depends on what they  specifically think. Yes, we oversee all  of that stuff. So we need to simplify  that. That's what I'm saying. and and  and explain people those those meaning  what the meaning of those things.  So the voice things are interesting that  was my second point. Um there are a  bunch of companies out there that say  they are voice first AI and obviously  you have hypocratic ellipsis a bunch of  others as well.

Um mostly and I think  you mentioned this earlier that there's  a lot of hospitals and and health  systems that are you have call centers  and they're trying to reach out to  people or trying to respond to people  and you know that's that's a a  problematic area. um those companies  will say, "Well, voice is different."  You know, you can't it's not the same as  chat.

Obviously, the big LMS, you can  turn on the speaker and they will they  will talk to you as well as as well as  let you type back and forward. Um then  again, in real life, a lot of people  prefer texting than talking on the phone  now. So, so what's your sense? Do you  think that voice AI is a different thing  and requires a different feature?  Simply a feature.

Yep. So you  it's one one component I I found it like  um the unique is to move in between  you know I can start a conversation with  you um patient GPT going to be in your  call center so for example you call in  the conversation starts you're saying oh  I don't know what to do my baby's crying  for like six six hours now like what  should I do and the conversation start  fluently in voice figuring out and then  the conversation sends you a text and  say continue here and you open up and  you start seeing how to take care of  like you're seeing an educational  material that could avoid you being in  the ER or or anything else that you  could have not done so far. So like I  can see that stuff really as a feature  and I really believe in a multimodality  of things not like as a standalone voice  or something like that. I I found those  those voice AI some some of it is very  beneficial but I I'm hearing a lot of

like this is just another robocall  people are feeling the unless it's it's  a really engaging thing we we need to be  careful about that just replacing that  call  yeah I think what you said is dead right  the navigation between different  modalities and making sure it's  personalized but also it's the right  tool for the job and it might be at some  point that you know you talk to it I  find I talk to it in the  and I occasionally talk to it when I'm,  you know, bored, but in general,

if you  want to get information, it's quicker  for someone like me to read it rather  than just be have it talked to. And I  think uh the the limits of Alexa  have driven me mad about about voice AI,  but anyway, and there's also a lot of  complications with understanding or what  have you. Having said that, there are  still a lot of health plans in  particular who don't have don't have a  voice AI function of any kind when you  want to or even a chat even a chat box  sometimes when you uh when you want to  communicate with them. Not not talk not  pointing at you particularly Blue Shield  of California but [laughter] you know

who you are. So so I think there's a lot  you know to be gained there but I'm kind  of with you. I'm, you know, although I'  I've talked a lot with the folks at  Epipratic, [clears throat] I'm a little  bit puzzled as to whether they they  remain sort of an independent product,  but we we shall see.

Um, so so that's  that's interesting. Are you right now  being used is you in the way you  mentioning call centers? If you go to a  if you put in K Health as a as a health  system, do you also get the voice part  into the call center as part of the uh  I I would it's a starting there as a  starting point. It's not as well well  established as as our all other tech but  it's makes a lot of sense right because  we need to stop thinking about the point  of entries differently like it doesn't  matter when you come as a million doors  we want you to have the same intelligent  experience website portal call center  calling your care team everything needs  to lead to that intelligent layer that  understand who you are what are you  seeking for putting in the right place  And then if you move to care, carry with  you all the information so your provider  knows exactly what you coming on with  and not starting over by saying, "Oh,

what's up, Matt? What you feeling  today?" And you just describe everything  you just did five minutes ago again.  It's like that's the kind of thing we  wanted to create. And I think it will  create tremendous trust with people.  Yeah.  And when you tell to patient you want to  talk to AI, many say no, I don't want to  talk to AI.

But when you tell patient  you're not talking to eye, you're  preparing your visit to your doctor.  They will talk to the eye even more than  even you think. they will say this and  that and it will add we haven't to see  in patient GPT air bases the people  saying hey why didn't ask me about this  and about that like so that's the that's  the kind of the sentiment I'm trying to  make sure people understand here being  part of a health system is very  different than having a standalone  relationship with an AI outside  all right now I I I'm I'm it's dead  right and I think the connection of  technology to services has been the

biggest problem and I've been doing this  since health 2.0 in 2007. That's always  been the biggest problem. The sort of  the tech  health 2.0 digital health stuff grafted  onto the health services health services  and they're still not talking. Can I  promise you they're still not talking  many in many cases and that and that's  an area that you know technology has to  fix. So let's start very so to end this  I want to have sort of two lines of

questioning. One is very pragmatic about  K health and the next one is I want to  go to the future. So just pragmatically  you guys started you mentioned nine  years ago is that right? Yeah.  And then uh give me some numbers. You've  raised how much by this stage? Quite a  bit. I remember over the years.  Quite a bit.

I think more than $400  million over the years.  Decent amounts gone in. And actually  some went in like last week, right?  Didn't you have another?  Yeah, we had a round last week. We  really are proud about having, you know,  health system also part of our cap table  now.  Okay.  Um so that's that's going that's going  well for us.

This year to be honest with  you this was probably the best year so  far for us. Um we felt like we have  managed to move the needle on care  delivery and we spoke about a lot about  AI but eventually  enterprise AI enterprise vertical AI in  healthcare is going to come back to the  bottom line. We are looking at health  system that are now needs to become more  efficient.

There's a simply no choice in  order to serve population better. We  need to improve the efficiency on our  health care system and it's not by  asking our healthcare providers just to  work harder. We have to find a way to  deliver care more efficiently and that  is really why people are now looking at  K health as an alternative way of  serving large population.

And to your  point, no one looks at us as a AI tool.  They look at us as an AI care delivery  platform that can basically change  about or how care Carol care is being  delivered and that's kind of the  differentiator I'm seeing in the market.  So uh just list off I know we mentioned  uh Cedars and Novant and a couple of  others.

Just give me a sense which which  systems are you announced that you're  with? So we we currently have 10 health  system partners  and as you would expect you know Mayo  Clinic at Osanai, Hackinac Marid and  Healthy New Jersey, Hartford Healthcare  which has been our design partner in  everything that patient GPT M General  Bergam which we plan to do a lot  together in order to develop the AI  model and Northwell Health in New York.

Novant Health we just mentioned. We  recently really recently launched with  Atlantic Health  which has in my mind Atlantic Health has  probably the most advanced consumer  lenses at the moment about how the  transformation of healthcare is is is is  on and and then if I forgot anyone else  um I apologize but that those are  we get a flavor of those big systems and  then tell me about the relationship with  Alabance that's kind of was the one  where you started with is that still  going are they still working with you or  No, we we we we had a really good  experience. But to your point that I  want to make sure  we  realized that building a standalone care  delivery platform is not necessarily the  way to go. And when we were a provider  in the network for Eleans, we felt that  we need to actually align ourself with

health system and also them realized  that. So it was really good  relationship. Everybody came out happy  about it. A lot of learning but  currently not anymore.  Now the target is squarely big health  systems and managing that. And I get  from just the stuff you've shown us  already. Obviously there's there's  there's two things going on here, right?  There's improving internal efficiency,  all the rest of it.

There's also getting  patients into the health system to to  run the to run the cash till we can  which gets me to sort of the next the  next part. Where do you where do you  think um there's obviously a lot of  pieces where this is going for one thing  almost all the companies you mentioned  as clients you mentioned are also Epic  customers Epic started to build its own  I mean is this Emmy right which is going  to be there is it kind of they have so  many names I can't remember but I think  Emmy is their chat bot that's going to  be inside reading their health record

and servicing this so there's obviously  going to be some competition from Epic  obviously everybody in healthcare  whether they're in the ambient AI  scribing or their clinical decision  support or wherever they are thinks that  Epic is coming to get them and maybe  they are and maybe they're not and all  the rest of it. Um how are you thinking  about that relationship? Um and what's  the conversation going on about about uh  you you talked about emote a bit  earlier. What's the conversation going  about how how do you deal with the sort

of the you know the sort of Microsoft of  the 1990s that is Epic now working  working with all those clients that  you're also working with?  Epic is a really important partner for  us. We are working with them in many  cases with through our health systems. I  feel like the  idea of agents to agent is going to  materialize very soon and I think we're  going to find ourselves more friends  than people think.

I honestly believe  that there is an expertise of agents and  those agent need to speak to other agent  and I think the orchestration that we  build this ability to manage you outside  of the portal relationship  not necessarily the time that you go  into a visit is aware area that has  enough white space for us and that's the  area that really health system wants us  to be and you show the health check you  saw the proactiveness you saw the in  between visit and all of that and then  when it's time to go to care and do we  are going to basically activate in some  way or fashion other AI agent and it  could be Emmy to your point I think  that's the name but I also think that  health system are going to build their  AI  sure  and I I think those AI are going to get  sophisticated very very much like you're  going to have a specific AI algorithm in  a health system that figure out when is

your repeat visit for your colonoscopy  much more personalized than one stand  all that we have today are we not going  to talk to each other and say hey give  me the thing about what do you think  about this patient preventive care and I  can facilitate that I think it's coming  I think it's going to take a bit more  time for the MCPS and all the tech to be  plugged in but I think we're heading in  a future that and this is my prediction  to be honest Matt  I'm almost feeling like software is  blended. I feel like with AI agent, what  we used to know as software that starts  and end is going to start blend. The  lines are going to blend. An AI agent  working as a CRM system inside  Salesforce is going to talk to an AI  agent that works in billing inside Epic  is going to talk to the AI engine that  manage relationship with a medical

record patient GPT and K health. All of  them are going to orchestrate somehow in  order to facilitate the experience for  the patient.  So two things to to to wrap on. Um I  I'll no particular order but obviously  one has raised the first and we're  having a lot of conversation about this.  In fact, last week uh the Kla I was  saying the Ka brothers but it's the Kla  father and son and Zeke Emanuel wrote  wrote a piece um saying that you know  back to the whole does does AI take over  doctors and the rest of it right now  it's clear that you are working on the

process of let's give the patient all of  information let's get information from  the patient let's get a continual sort  of record and conversation going and  let's plug it into human visits and  human doctors a lot of people are  talking about okay well how much of that  becomes done by AI doctors and how you  know where does the human stop where  does the human stop where does the AI  stop and all the rest of it and how do  they work how do they work together a  lot of people about talking about them

working together I've had conversation  with many medical directors and and uh  folks about this but what's your sense  of how much gets done before you get to  a human uh in the future  I interestingly one of the article they  mentioned in that  study was the one I mentioned before the  analysts of internal medicine.

Yeah,  it's almost a year before we've seen a  study and the study showed that 70% of  the time in acute conditions was a  narrow set of condition our AI did the  same as the MD and in the rest of the  time the actually I make better decision  than the MD. So it's not new to me this  idea but I strongly believe that there  is delivering care there's actually  other aspects and just making the  mathematical or the logical decision and  many cases by the way Matt diagnosis is  very ambiguated  sure  this is what comes down to the algorithm  there is high confidence areas that we  will automate that eventually I believe  that we will have a clinical decision  that will automatically end up giving  you a a clinical diagnosis completely  without human the world is I think we're  heading there but I think the role of  the human is actually going to be  different it's going to be more

oversight  and dealing with what I call the  exceptions which is quite large because  when we have an ambiguated case that  case confidence goes lower and that  handle for the to the AI so I'm a great  believer that AI will replace what  doctor do but not replace the doctor  role in my mind. So that's kind of like  where I'm thinking about.

And yes,  there's going to be conditions that I'm  I'm we heading into automation.  Yeah, it's it's still interesting that  the joke is still that, you know,  [clears throat] Jeffrey Hinton said in  2016 we're going to get rid of  radiologists and now radiologists still  you still [laughter] can't hard enough  and their pay is still going up faster.

So you know, even though that's probably  the one specialy which uses AI of  various flavors more than any other.  This is exactly my point, Matt. You know  if you think about it and this has come  back to the biggest story I want to tell  you I believe this is personally for me  we as as a patient should have maybe 50  diagnosis a year not five  five in the best if I go to see the  doctor five time that's high that's the  time I get diagnosis I think we can get  high quality diagnosis 50 times a year  every question we have every stomach  ache we have every wonder in our every  Everything could become high quality  clinical decision if we let ourselves  think about for a second about how we  rearchitect that. That's actually what  patient GPT is trying to say. It's  trying to give you all the information.  And it doesn't necessarily mean that  we're going to need doctors. It might be  that we actually after all said and

done, we need even more doctors in order  to facilitate because the good thing  about healthcare is you open supply,  there's more demand.  Well, I think there there is that and  that may be good or bad, but the uh the  the the the ability you get from these  from AI in general is to take far more  data points as you just mentioned,  right? So, yeah, you wake up with a  stomach bug one day and whatever and and  and you may ignore it or you may go and  ask chat GBT.

You probably don't go and  call your doctor about it, but there may  be something going on there that was  helpful for the for the the system to  know. And when you start and you talk  about people getting far more blood  tests with you know functional  superpower at least you know hundreds of  blood tests instead of biomarkers  instead of you know 15 or 20 and I I  think we're there's a long way to go as  people start figuring out how do we do  this and how do we really manage chronic  illness and catch stuff earlier.

So I I  think I'm I'm with you on that. All  right, last question and this is you you  guys have made a bet, right, with big  big current health systems and you look  at the American health care system,  there are a bunch of big incumbents on  the other, you know, and you mentioned a  number of them are your clients, right?  Um, at the moment Mayo Clinic and Cedus  probably aren't going anywhere in the  next little bit.

Particularly hope Cedar  isn't going anywhere because I'm heading  down there for procedure this week, but  not going anywhere.  But um, but uh,  excellent, excellent organ. Yeah,  but uh, you know, you do have a lot of  people sniffing around. The more this  becomes an AI focused uh an AI and  information and data focused uh activity  as we just explained the more you've got  both obviously the big AI models the  Gemini you know Google open AI anthropic  god knows what the Chinese are cooking  up uh in getting involved in this and  they're starting to to to get together  data as I asked you earlier in the the  session they're getting data from the  tesca and the whole health information  network Um so putting together people's  data from across multiple sources um  doesn't sound too hard for them to start  plugging in some of the services that  you said are not available in them  currently. A lot of people are prepared  to offer that. You're saying a grow big  growth in people offering online care.

Yeah. For the moment most of it is GLP1s  sold from somewhat dubiousarmacies but  nonetheless there's a bunch of other  people who are building real online  clinics. some cases specializing in, you  know, menopause,  women with, you know, around menopause  age or people with GI issues or mental  health or what have you.

Um, and then of  course you've got the health plans and  others who who yes, they are very happy  to [laughter]  get claims from big health systems, but  also start, you know, many of them I'm  I'm a Sigma member now. They've got  their own teller health service, MD  live, which, you know, will start doing  urgent care.

you've got to be able to  imagine that that this type of tool and  the services you're talking about it  could go into many different directions  um and a lot of other players could come  in. So I guess my question is is your  bet on big health systems which as I  have said have not deployed this stuff  nearly enough but is your bet on big  health systems your only bet or do you  think there are other potential venues  where all care might end up? No, I uh  you just describe my competitive  landscape.

 So [laughter]  this is very interesting. I um  my bet is that the  competition will become not on the best  model but on the best workflow.  And I think in enterprise AI we are  going to make the winner or the loser by  how much did you manage to really impact  the workflow and the integration of all  the pieces together.

So my bet is really  with the health system I feel as an  online clinic standalone you can change  as much but not the entire continuum of  care and with the health system which we  have in the country if you think about  it 400 organization or some that control  three trillion of medical spend and if  you just work enough with them I think  with with enough of them I think the  market is so big and you just work with  enough of them, you can change mill tens  of millions of lives, health journeys  and and that's kind of like where my my  my head is in in all of that competitive  landscape and it's it's a big it's a big  undertake to go to an health system and  go to go through that trigger and to put  your inside your AI inside the care  which is very different to give license

hey you can play around with my product  and and do some stuff on that but you  actually in the medical record you gave  RAI the permission to operate inside the  medical that's a big mo in my mind  yeah I think uh I mean if you were to  look at the if you were to look at  America today the chances of radical  change to how we deliver health care to  my mind is in terms of the organizations  is limited I'm actually having a  campaign run trying to change it but  that's a separate issue but uh it's it's  a pretty good bet that the thing we we  could do to

improve the care the most is  to improve the operations and the  patient focus of the big health systems  out there now because they do deliver  most of the care and yeah there is some  chance that in 20 years we wake up and  it's all been delivered by Amazon and  Apple or a bunch of companies we haven't  heard of yet but you know for now you  know I understand why you guys are going  to the to the to the current incumbents  and I wish you luck and you're  continuing to improve their the  experience that their patients have

because [laughter] like I said I've  dealing a lot with it lately and it's  not all great. So, please go sell more  and I particularly recommend selling to  the cardiology department at Stanford.  They may be the hardest of the lot to  get through.  May maybe not so much but I want to tell  you something Matt few years ago you  asked me should you go to health system  I was actually very negative about it.

Yeah.  I was like there's no chance we're going  to convince those academic center that  we can be helpful. There's simply no  chance. But I have to tell you in the  last few years I am very proud to see  this industry and I actually aside from  vibe coding coders and engineers show me  another industry that has moved so fast  in deployment of AI in a clinical in a  critical workflow.

Not giving some some  people a little bit of a license out  there to play around with with you know  those enterprise product right  workflow. Show me a finance department,  a logistic department, an advertising  department that has completely revamped  their process flow as much as healthcare  have done. So that's kind of like  encouraging to see as an industry.

Yeah, I think that's right. It's it's  healthcare or Ukrainian drones.  [laughter] One of one of the other  I did not want to raise that, but yes,  that that is a whole thing of  that's that's fantastic. All right. I  have been speaking with Ran Shaw. is the  chief product officer of K Health. Ran,  thanks for your time.

 It was really  great to look through what you guys  done. Congratulations on the progress so  far. I said get to Stanford Cardiology  and uh the cardiac cardiac clinic in in  in uh CAS so I can talk to them instead  and uh [laughter]  congrats on the work so far and may keep  going.  Thank you very much Matt. Very very  nice. Enjoyed it. Thank you.