Title: Kai Romero, Evidently
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=a_dp9kG7Ty4
Language: en
Duration: 55:00
Upload Date: Nov 8, 2025

Transcription:

[Music]   Hi, Matthew Hul back with another TCB   special and I'm here with Kyomero.   Kyomero is the head of clinical success   at Evidently, which is a an AI company   that is one of the the many to be honest   who are looking at trying to get data   out of what we know about clinical care   into the hands of clinicians and others   to figure out what we should do in the   course of that clinical care.

Is that a   fair summary of the the big big area   you're in, Kai?   >> That's right. That sounds right to me.   >> Fantastic. Um, so Kai, give us a little   You have a super interesting background,   which we won't go into too much, but   you've done a lot of work in hospice   care and other stuff. How how did you   end up as the head of a head of clinical   success at a uh at a tech company?   >> Yeah, I mean, I think so.

My background   is I'm trained in emergency medicine. I   actually currently continue to work   clinically in hospice and palative   medicine um on nights and weekends. I   think ultimately what drove me to um   working in health tech was not kind of   broadly the concept of working with   health health tech.

It was specifically   the functionality that evidently   creates um the head of product and   president evidently is Cali Dub   Magcguire um who is also an ER doc and   someone that I met many years ago in   training and a I implicitly trust her   judgment and b the problem that she was   trying to solve was so compelling and so   interesting and the way that the company   was going about solving it was so   aligned with my sense of the right way   to fix these problems.

I think a lot of   the challenges that we have right now um   with managing the administrative burden   of the electronic medical record is   rooted in not having clinicians at the   table when generating these um   solutions. And so the notion of being   able to be at the table to to bring in   kind of an active practicing clinician   perspective as they were creating this   product was extremely compelling to me.

>> That's great. So let's dive into the   problem. Um if I was to let me let me   tell you what I think the problem is   that you're that you are solving and   that you tell me whether I'm right about   the problem or the solution. So we have   a ton of text and other data from not   only one EMR but some cases multiple   EMRs and then we have lots of other uh   discrete data things like labs and   imaging and other stuff like that and we   don't know exactly where it is and   sometimes it's not all immediately   apparent. It's hard for it to be   immediately apparent to the treating   clinician as to what to do with the   patient at that time. So uh that sounds   like a problem. Is that the problem   you're fixing? Am I described it about   right or am I missing some parts?   >> No, that's right. I would say even   within if if a patient had every single   piece of their clinical information   contained within within one EMR even   then it can be difficult to trace things   like um the change in a patient's health   over time the change in you know their   chronic disease over time because of all

the disperate elements that have to be   incorporated to describe that and to   define that. Um, the challenge when you   incorporate other EMRs. I had a   clinician say the other day in a   training, I thought this was a perfect   analogy. It's like trying to find   something in someone else's junk drawer.   Like, you know, it's probably in there.

You have no idea what it is, what the   things are, where they go, how they got   there in the first place. And so it's   essentially a needle in the haystack   situation where you don't know of the 50   PDFs that have been scanned into the   media tab labeled things like April 7th.   Which of those will contain relevant   clinical information?   >> Absolutely.

Um so there are two well I   say two there's probably 50 problems   here but there are two problems the   technology problems here. First is you   know gathering the data from multiple   places for the patient in front of you   and the second and that's a lot better   than it was 10 years I mean almost   didn't exist 1015 years ago and now it's   got a lot better with all the different   hi and what are they called now the the   Q hins and the the the data providers   and whatever and   >> that's right fuss about that and then   there's the issue of like okay gathering   it and then going looking and doing not   unstructured and structured data   >> that's right   >> do you guys play in both how do you get   the data and do you guys play in that   role or are you where are you in that   stream and then what do you what   precisely does evidently do?   >> Yeah, so we ingest data from both   structured and unstructured data. I   would say that structured data is   certainly easier to ingest than the   unstructured data and yet it is there is   so much information in that unstructured   data that actually influences not only

the description the the accurate capture   of the patient's medical record but also   capturing of all of the um patient   complexity that we know informs um these   quality metrics that are so important   for our hospital systems. Um, so we pull   in resources from H.IE's. We're a smart   on fire app.

We pull in um from both the   primary EMR and whatever resources the   EMR has access to. So if you're an Epic   client, that would be Care Everywhere.   Um, and then uh use that data to um   apply it to our proprietary knowledge   graph. So essentially pull in all that   information, PDFs, scan faxes, things   like that, and then link them to medical   concepts.

And the thing that's   interesting about this is that there are   a lot of companies that are doing chart   summarization as you mentioned. But for   the most part, the way people are   tackling this problem is by saying,   okay, what's the workflow? Let me pull   in the necessary data components to   inform that workflow.

The way that our   founder and CEO Fun um and CTO JO   attacked this problem was to say, let's   look at the entirety of medical   knowledge. Let's map that and then bring   in all of the data to map on to that   broad knowledge base. What that   essentially means is that we're looking   at a a much more comprehensive look of   the of that patient data.

It also means   that we're kind of infinitely adaptable   to new workflows because we have the   core function which is data mapped to   the knowledge base. So it makes for a   very different and I would say a very   different experience for clinicians in   the sense that if they want to see   something new, if they want to see data   that informs a new process, it's a very   simple low lift for us to to move the   data into that framework however they   want to see it because we already have   it all mapped to begin with.

Yeah. And I think that that you've got   uh right now and you seem to be sort of   square in the middle of this. You've got   a number of of companies who are kind of   going down the open evidence route of   can we gather all the information there   isn't that you just have at that and   others you know I'm thinking of the   innovations of the world others who are   taking data from multiple places and and   then sort of presenting it in front of   the you from multiple records multiple   parts of the organization or and   presenting in front of of of clinicians.   Yeah. So, which leads to the question   where does evidently show up in you   mentioned workflow. Where do you   actually show up in the workflow? If I'm   got a patient in front of me and I'm,   you know, the I'm either doing the AI   scribing or I'm still tapping away in   epic.   >> Yeah.   >> Thing is at what point do I go ah what   point does evidently show up in my   workflow and how do you how do you get   that to happen? So, um I will say that   for the most part, one one really core   functionality of Evidently is allowing   people to do what we call their kind of   chart biopsy or their pre-charting   um their pre- uh visit work. Um whether

that's a new inpatient hospital patient   or that's a new outpatient um getting   the lay of the land on who that patient   is, what's happened to them, what   studies they've had done recently. So,   laying that groundwork. We actually work   with um uh well I think with AI scribes   that are collecting the real-time   information about what's happening to   that patient today but can't for the   most part provide the longitudinal   context.

Sometimes they can provide a   few prior notes. Um uh there I think   there are a number of different   companies that are able to kind of go   back a certain number of uh notes or   episodes to bring in that information.   But we can go back longitudinally over   the course of the entire uh history of   that patient's medical record and bring   in the relevant context so that when   you're having those initial   conversations, you've got I mean the   interesting part to me as a clinician is   that like yes, in order to make good   medical decisions, it's important to   have this information. But I would say   equally important is that when patients   um know that you understand their   history, there's a profound trust   building component to that. You're not   going to tell your doctor about some of   your, you know, the things that, let's   say, your your alcohol use or something,   you know, some unhealthy behavior that   we are all engaged in at some level,   right? You don't want to reveal that to   this person that you just met. If they   have a sense of who you are, if they   understand something about your medical   history, it it begins laying that   groundwork for be able for being able to

have that honest conversation with them,   that's so essential to providing them   good medical care.   So it's mostly previsit and then   presumably post visit and review. It's   not so much during the actual visit that   this gets used. Is that correct?   >> You know, different clinicians use it   differently.

So the the   um clinicians who are doing things like   um preop evaluations are doing a lot of   this beforehand, not using it in real   time. There are lots of doctors that are   using it literally have it open while   they're in the visit and are saying,   "Oh, I see that you went to the ED last   month for X.

how was that using it to   kind of guide some of their   conversation.   >> The final thing is that we also assist   in drafting notes um for uh inpatient   providers particularly. So helping to   pull in that information to kind of form   the assessment and plan as well. So   yeah, it there's a range.   >> Yeah.

No, I think that's the the great   news is as you introduce a new tool, the   users will figure out how they want to   use it. So So let's let's let's take a   look at how the tool works. And there   are two things going on. one is that   you've had a trai your traditional   product which is not that traditional   but how long has that been in the   market?   >> Um so the company has existed for four   years I would say in its current form   for probably about the last three um   with lots of obviously product work   along the way   >> and then you now have a a new thing that   is just coming out either either very   soon or just happened which is which is   more sort of chatbot focused Q&A style.   So let's let's let's take a look at both   those. start with the original and go on   to the uh the new one.   >> Great. Um so this is the landing page   for our um for our product. And I'm just   going to describe some of the kind of   core functionality of what we're doing.   As I described, we kind of map all of   the medical record um onto these

clinical concepts. And and one of the   most important things for me and for um   every other clinician in the company is   that pro that providers are able to very   rapidly validate whether or not this is   something real. Um because there's no   utility in bringing up information   that's not real.

So we link to all of   the resources for um that have gone into   generating this summary down here. And   within a note, um, you can see the   original document with the piece   highlighted that we're pulling from in   order to inform the summary. And, you   know, when you're asking clinicians to   trust technology, you have to make it   really easy for them to.

And so, that's   what I love about this functionality   that you can very rapidly tell is this   is this something real or not. So, the   other thing I want to show you about   this is that we're linking these medical   concepts. This is really when where our   knowledge graph comes in. When you pull   up left ventricular diastolic   dysfunction, this is a type of heart   failure.

Um what it does is pull in many   other medical concepts, uh lab studies,   imaging that are going to be important   for any provider who's considering this   diagnosis to be aware of in order to   provide good care. So we have an   overview of the encounter that we're   looking at today and then longitudinally   what's happened with this patient down   here on the right.

And just to interrupt   you a second, this view with the with   the uh the charts and the latest values   and the threeear chart that you can see   there.   >> Yeah.   >> You want to mouse over it so that people   can see what I'm talking about the view   and then the to the to the go go down to   the right those charts next to the   vitals for heartbeat.

>> Oh, down here   >> all this kind of stuff. Yeah. Yeah. This   view and and lab results. Remember this   is being constructed on the fly by   Evidently.   >> That's right.   >> From the other from the other data it's   receiving. Right.   >> That's right. That is behind the AIB t   AIB line.

If you go just for a second,   go back to the summary.   >> Yep.   >> Um so the the dystolic function kidney   disease AIB thing you've got there.   >> Those things are you basically you're   creating that on the fly as it were.   >> That's right. Okay.   >> And these summaries are being built on   the fly as well to kind of incorporate   really whatever is you know longitudally   true but also what's new today. Right.

Right? You can imagine if you're   inatient in a hospital, these numbers   are going to change maybe daily, hourly.   Um, and you want to be able to to have   the most recent data at your fingertips,   right?   >> So, down here, um, you're going to see   the chart mentions. I think something   that's kind of probably going to be   interesting for clinicians who are used   to seeing, um, something we call note   bloat um, in a traditional EHR, right?   there's a lot of copying of prior notes.

So, this instead of making you click   through, you know, 25 notes that have   the same information, it just says   there's 10 duplicate mentions that look   exactly like this. So, if you look at   one, you're essentially looking at all   10. Don't scroll through 10 different   charts saying the same thing.

Um, and   you can see all of the different   snippets of the notes where this is   mentioned and decide which of these you   want to do a deeper dive into. Um here's   the as you mentioned the vital signs um   the labs that anyone would want to know   um for related to this chronic kidney   disease concept the medications that are   going to be impacting the kidney   processed by the kidney um the imaging   reports.

So there's some we have some   ultrasounds, some CTS, all of which if   you click on you get pulled to the um to   the actual study report um and then the   procedures as well that are going to be   um relevant to this concept. So the   notion is is trying to pull in all the   things that a physician would standardly   need to consider in order to you know   adequately diagnose and treat this   disease or to get a sense of its um uh I   should chronicity and intensity um all   in one spot.

And then there's just so   many different ways to slice and dice   this information. Um these are some uh   other types of summaries of many   different types. some that are organ   system based, some that are time based.   This one is what we something we call a   custom summary. So this is a custom   summary that I would use in the   emergency department because I want to   know anyone that has difficult IV   access, a difficult airway or safety   concern.

So on every patient that comes   in, it's going to pull that out of the   chart um and let me know these are the   things that you should be aware of. you   know, ordering labs or ordering an IV on   this patient will or will not be um a   problem, you know, based on the history   in their medical record.   >> Now, that makes that all makes a lot of   sense.

Um so, you've got a bit of   experience of this being out in the   world now.   >> Yeah.   >> How you people see the general patient   doctors, clinicians, especially if   they're busy, they see the general   patient overview. Yeah.   >> Um   >> how how much when you track them, do   they go click in and say, "Oh, we better   figure out what this actually was.

" And   how much they're going, "I just believe   it. I trust it. Let me go on with the   thing because this person's got these   five things. How are you doing today?"   You know?   >> Yeah. So, it's a good question. What I   would say is if they are doing something   about that issue today, they tend to   click on it.

If I'm prescribing your,   you know, blood pressure medication for,   you know, to manage your hypertension   related to your chronic kidney disease,   I'm going to take a look at your last   renal ultrasound. Why not? It's right   there. If they're not managing that   condition today, they're not doing a   deeper dive.

What I will say is that   this custom summary has been so fun to   see the types of things that people   create for that because as you can   imagine and this is especially true of   specialists, they tend to have certain   buckets of types of patients that   they're seeing. You're a cardiology   specialist, you've got your coronary   artery disease patients, you've got your   congestive heart disease patients,   you've got your, you know, whatever   else.

And so what I've seen people do is   build out um as a good example, we uh   have a new patient, new OB patient   custom summary that has probably 70 or   80 different data elements, ultrasounds,   labs, past, you know, obstetrical   history, surgical history. And   essentially what it does is allow the   person who's seeing that patient for the   first time and would have spent   genuinely 45 minutes to an hour   collecting that data to in the click of   a button have that information pulled in   and available for them to review.

>> That's great. Can you you may you you   can say no to this, but can you build   one really quickly?   >> Yeah. So um we can   >> uh in your uh and just just let's say   I'm sure this is demo data and not   personally identifiable in any way.   >> That's right. So all of this   >> probably for a real person but somehow   crudely other real people therefore   would not be not be not an identified   person.

>> That's right. This is a demo data and   not PHI. So, create a bulleted overview   of this patient's cardiac care over the   past six months.   Um, and it will read through all of   that. And this complex patient, but   there we go. And along the way,   >> this patient was much sicker than a real   patient. So, I hope they might.

I know   there probably are patients who are this   sick.   >> That's right. This patient actually um   unfortunately died at the end of her ICU   stay as well. Um, but you can see all of   these are clickable. All of these you   can kind of do a deeper dive into. And   you can imagine, I mean, fundamentally   the data ask of any of any provider, but   especially any outpatient provider   that's being asked to see 20, 30, 40   patients a day.

Um, one of my good   colleagues who's now a hospice doctor as   well, previously was a primary care   doctor, and I asked her, "How did you   like get up to speed on patients when   you were seeing that many?" And she   said, "I would just pull up the med   list. That was all I could do.   >> Pull the med list and and triangulate   off that and hope the med list was   correct.

>> That's right. And so you think, gosh,   how much more information are we making   available to these very pressed for time   clinicians that want to do the best care   that they can, but also are under these   very intense time   >> and they can also figure it out with   this view. You know, it's it's it's a   five-second read to do the summary, and   this one's probably a 15-second read to   go, okay, here are the the five big   things.

And, you know, one time and and   you and you can do this with the patient   in the room, and you can review with the   patient, say, I see that you had this   thing five years ago or two years ago.   >> That's right. And it goes back to this   kind of trust building, relationship   building component.   >> No, that's that's very true. That's   fantastic.

So um which types you   mentioned a lot of different people   different use cases already but where   are you seeing within the different   different groups of clinicians and   specialies and who I know you're   emergency medicine doc and hospice doc   who uses this the most or where do you   where do you see this popping up the   most   >> so what I would say is the kind of   highlevel overview page is very popular   amongst er docs who for whom every   patient is new right they're just trying   to get the lay of the land figure out   what the bas basic stuff that's   happening is and rule out the worst   things. So the the kind of landing   overview page is very popular amongst ER   docs. In terms of um the custom   summaries, we find that outpatient   providers love those because as I said,   they have those like buckets of patients   that they're looking at. They can kind   of, you know, put patients into each of   them. Um the the group that also really   loves evidently is actually um preop

physicians. So anesthesiologists that   are doing the kind of preop evaluation   to make sure someone is safe to go to   the O. What they tend to use is   something we have down here called   problem mentions.   >> Mhm.   >> Um so this is pulling in um every single   time the patient had some type of heart   failure coded.

And you can see over the   course of her life how many different   ways they coded heart failure, right? um   we try to make that a little bit less   overwhelming by by grouping it in that   way. But if you are a physician looking   for rare things, you know, like rare   arrhythmias, we basically um show the   strength of the evidence with dark blue   with a check mark means it's coded in   your institution.

Blue without a check   mark coded somewhere. But these purple   problem mentions are things that have   never been coded anywhere but may be   real problems. So these are things that   would not be in their problem list in   the EHR but have been mentioned many   times in their history. You can imagine   for someone who's trying to kind of   broadly capture the risk of someone   undergoing a procedure, they want to   know if there's a lot of mentions of   pulmonary hypertension that's massively   impactful to their potential outcomes   surgically but would not be captured by   a traditional problem list. So that   group tends to really love this. And   then the other group that um that tends   to use um a certain type of our   functionality are um surgeons and   nefologists really love this uh the labs   imaging and procedures section. So the   ability to kind of trend things over   time. You can custom add in these labs.   These are presented in a way that   physicians are trained to read labs as   opposed to kind of the the tab overview.

>> Um yeah.   >> No, that's fantastic. Although I'm, you   know, some of the anesthesiologists I   know, I'm very surprised they care about   that that much information. Well, they   just put them straight out and intubated   them. But,   >> right. No,   >> I I won't name names. Adam Schiff.   >> First,   >> yeah, two first ask questions later.

>> Um, all right. Fantastic. So, uh, this   product is so good, so cool, so   brilliant. Why did you bother updating   it and building this other product from   it? Show show us about show me about   this ask product. I will first explain   why you did that. other than everybody   else has a everyone else has a church   look alike too.

>> That's right. I think ultimately what we   realized is that there are varying   degrees of interest and willingness in   engaging with um with the data.   Sometimes people just want things served   up immediately without having to do a   lot of work because you can imagine up   here with the custom prompt um you might   write it slightly differently and get   slightly different information.

There's   a degree of skill in that, right? not a   tremendous amount of skill but some.   There are some people that simply want   to ask the chart a question. Um   >> and this this product is this is the new   as of when   >> this has been this has been something   that's uh we have had available to users   just this this year and in the last   several months is when we kind of   formally launched it.

>> Okay. So this is pretty new but not   absolutely brand spanking new.   >> That's right. We've had it around   >> using it. So you got some evidence. You   have some evidence. Haha. About uh   >> how people use   >> how how it's been used. Great. So why   don't you show us how this works?   >> So this for really discreet questions   like um how many times has this patient   read it? Um can essentially bring up um   this information.

What it does is it   actually doesn't search through every   single detail of the chart. It searches   through a paired down version of the   chart so that it can answer quickly. if   it searched through the entirety of the   chart, each of these searches would take   a lot longer. Um, but it what's   compelling about it is that oftentimes   we have clinicians who really just want   to know like what was that one time that   the patient's calcium was elevated and   don't want to be scrolling through pages   and pages and pages of data to get   there. Um, the other thing that's   interesting about this is because it's   all free text, people use it in so many   different ways. Um for example um create   a presentation to a consulting   cardiologist for this patient's chest   pain. So this is something that comes up   a lot if you're working either in the ED   or you're a um or an outpatient   provider. You're asking for a consult.   You want to provide them with the   information that's necessary and

appropriate for for that consult. Right?   So here's the relevant history. Here is   the timeline of their chest pain   episodes. Here's the relevant lab   results, medications, imaging. This is a   very thorough presentation. I don't   think I've ever made one this thorough   in my life to a consultant.

But what I   will say,   >> watch out. You'll be on the Dr.   Glyphokam uh uh you'll be lampuned on on   Dr. Glyphman's uh um little videos.   >> That's right.   >> Cardiologist with what?   >> Yeah, we'll just say chest pain room   four. That's a standard consult   question. But what I would say is having   all of this here so that you can speak,   you know, cogently with data to this   information is so powerful and and it's   not just about kind of making your   consultant happy, right? It's about   getting them to the right service as   quickly as possible. So some of the   times that these things are coming up,   it's not just like when you're in the ED   calling a cardiologist to kind of come   down and see your patient. It's also   when you're making decisions around   triage to transfer a patient to a an a   university medical center, right? If you   make that call wrong and take up a bed   in a university medical center that was   not necessary, that could have been   managed in a different setting, there

are real patient impacts on that. So,   what I love about this is the ability to   again create clarity in the murkiness   that can be the medical record so that   everyone is kind of speaking the same   language and understanding one another.   Yeah, I I would say I would ask the   question which is so this is another   different way similar to the the the the   the overview the part   >> of like taking the data and present it   in a way that is useful to whomever it   happens to be and I'm sure there are lot   of other examples you could give with   this   >> that's right   >> um how much have people gone and I don't   know how you know you talked at the   start about bringing in the world the   all the knowledge there is about a   particular medical thing you have the   this this uh um the medical data on the   particular patient bought from these   different places. The obvious step that   I wonder how people are taking does it   work in this is what we're seeing you   know people using for all different  
types of things chat GPT is to get to   the point where they're asking pretty   complex prompts and saying can you

develop a plan or whatever   >> so is that being used does this work for   that   >> so that would be what I would call our   kind of off label use we have access to   general medical knowledge the same way   chat GBT and others do um kind of   longitudinally what we're hoping to is   to bring in a validated source that we   can reference um beyond kind of general   medical knowledge.

But you can ask it   questions like is this patient being um   cared uh let's see is this patient's   heart   failure being cured or according   guidelines. So when things are kind of   commonly out there in the ether or   available to access in that way it can   give um information about that that's   not the formal use um of it but we know   that it is um it is possible to you know   it aligns with general heart failure   guidelines.

It'll tell you what it can   and and cannot comment on. Um   >> I see. So in this case it's saying well   I read this and this looks what the HA   says and this is this looks like where   stuff is potentially different and you   know obviously there could be reasons   why why it's been done differently and   one of them could be it's wrong and the   other one could be that there was   >> well here's a good particular patient   that you know that the that indicated   that's what should be happening right   >> that's right so this is a good example   anti-coagulation they're not   anti-coagulated because they have a   history of GI bleeding this is   reasonable but the risks and benefits   should be regularly assessed etc   >> um So yes, people are using it that way   as well. Um, we look forward to a future   when we have like uh essentially a   partnership with an organization that   can manage the database of that   information to be incorporated into this   tool but on the road map but not   tomorrow.   >> Yeah. I mean and and you know this is   sort of quasi philosophical. I was uh   giving a talk to a bunch of for some

reason a public health I was I know I   was asked but so I gave the talk to a   bunch of public health students in at   George Washington University last night   who are mostly people   >> and you know we were having this   discussion and you know I said that that   what we don't know is and this is a   thing is that how good are these LLMs   and how much data are they going to get   where from and how they integrate and   there's a lot of questions and answers   about you know   >> sealing off the personal health   information making sure that doesn't   flow into the general stuff but on the   other hand bringing the general stuff in   and making sure it reflects what we know   about patients and the other so there's   a lot of complexities about that but in   the end there is a big question as to   how many interfaces slash um different   systems do you need and people have   talked about you know such an adel from   Microsoft and others have talked about   well maybe we don't need SAS verticals   anymore and we just have one   >> you know one system that is rules them   all and then there's a question is that   is that a specialist system within   healthcare there is that something that   Epic has done that you guys have to

integrate with or not integrate with or   you know does open AAI do it all we   don't know the answer to that question   but I think it's very interesting to   think how people going to start using   these tools because that's right   >> you couldn't have done this before it   was just you'd have to go and read the   freaking guideline from somewhere and   maybe it would be an out to date and   obviously they're having to react to   open evidence and you know but the   integration of that around the   particular data you have for the patient   which is what you you know the coldface   that you're you're your mining working   whatever you want to say is really   fascinating because that's how you know   this is how medical decisions get made   you're a doctor now you got you know all   this stuff now you got to say we're   going to prescribe this drug we're this   procedure we're going to do whatever the   thing is next and and that to me is is   really super super helpful um   >> I do think too that one of the core   things that is um that has continued to   be interesting for me as a clinician in   this space is how little um people in

technology understand that have they   haven't had the fear of God beaten into   them around HIPPA in the way that any   clinician has. Right? We are terrified   of HIPPA. You from day one of your   medical training, you are taught to   treat medical patients private medical   information as   really extremely sacred.

It informs   everything that we do. And I think   what's been interesting as a clinician   in this space is bringing that culture   to the company. Um I was not the one   that brought it to the company. Cali   was. But I think there's so much about   what we do internally to protect patient   information.

Um there's a part of me   that would be very curious to know if   that's true of all health tech companies   that are dealing with patient   information.   >> I you know well I have two comments   about this. One is that you and everyone   else in the healthare system has had a   hippa beaten into you.   >> Yep.   >> Whether correctly or incorrectly.

I was   told I was told by a by a scheduler at a   large uh medical center close to my   house in Marin. You can send Yes, it is.   I was told that I could not send them an   email requesting an appointment because   it was a HIPPA violation.   >> Yeah, exactly. I uh I I have a couple of   very influential Savage and Deon Mcgroy   who are like the leading he experts in   country the legal side they were   laughing away.

So there's that but   there's obviously yes there are clearly   people who have been flying you know   many ways regulations and new companies   flying loose. I would say that in   general there's a pretty good   understanding for most most clinicians   and others that that you shouldn't that   that you know you can get leakage if you   use one of the big LLMs has not stopped   a lot of people   >> exactly   >> of a patient and saying this patient has   whatever is this does it get linked back   to the individual name of the patient is   a strictly speaky hippo you know there's   a lot of gray areas there but clearly   we're going to work on this and this   actually question by the way came up in   my uh my lecture last night I'll repeat   the whole lecture as but it's also no   question that the original big players   and the big medical establishment and by   that I mean you know Mayo Clinic John   Halama plus Google and Microsoft put   together this thing called chai when   they were going to have a real go at   this and like put out guidelines and   whatever and the Trump administration   decided that that's a violation of the

innovation of America and you know we're   going to get a lot we're going to be a   lot more loose with this than we thought   so I think there's going to be a   >> continued period where a lot of crazy   stuff is going to happen. There will be   things that that that go wrong about   that.

And you know, I think the people   who self-regulate like clearly you guys   are doing are going to do better with   the exception that you're going to need,   you know, there's a lot of there's going   to be a ton of interest from not only   clinicians but patients in this stuff.   And there are already a couple of   dedicated nonic chat GBT.

There's also a   couple of dedicated sort of patientf   facing LLMs and people are going to be   feeding their own information into it.   And it' be like me sending my email. I   can send my own email to anybody I like   and I can tell you know I can talk about   my heart. I have them on on on LinkedIn   and you know I frequently have in the in   when my kids were young I would put   photos there like one of them had a   weird thing on his foot which actually   was a vaccine reaction tiny reaction to   a MMR and I you know I had a had a   massive grand rounds consult I put his   photos on Facebook and all my friends   who are doctors weighed in and said it's   this it's that and the other and you   know we figured out what it was I you   know so so to me how people you know   treat this stuff and and and and look   you're going to get whether you're going   handed over or not, you're gonna get a   lot of patient interest in this as well   because what a fantastic way to round.   Right.   >> Right. Right.   >> And that is something that we are um   also considering down the line is should   we have a patientf facing um chatbot   where you can kind of begin to get a

better understanding of your own medical   conditions much of which continue to   remain pretty opaque to many patients.   Um   >> and and I must tell you I've been using   THBG in some insightful meds one of the   other ones for for for exactly that. So   like and you know I'm by no means a   leader in this.

can read e patient Dave   de Broncard and uh and Hugo Campos and   others who've been you know who've been   Grace Cavano and others who've been very   active in this whole area and and you   know we've we've we've pried open the   Pandora's box lid and it's the question   of how you know do we use it for its   highest potential for everyone in the   healthare system but   >> that's right   >> clearly what you've built here and what   you've running here is is you know a   massive help and improvement for any   practicing doctor that's just so   blatantly obvious that that's why you   guys are are doing what you're doing and   how it actually plays out and you know   how you play with the big BMRs versus   >> the other guys I mean   >> I mean that's our pay grades at this   stage   >> that's right that's the question is   ultimately we we think it's pretty clear   that our technology is a massive step up   and we haven't seen any other company   who can do it in the way that we can now   there are so many things that inform   kind of how you exist and maintain in   the ecosphere beyond the power of your   technology but I will say that I

continually and including yesterday um   at work I was reading through some of   the um inpatient hospital summaries that   we had created for a super complex um   patient who'd had a brain bleed. Um, and   I as a an intern had to rotate on the   neurovvascular ICU service at UCSF. And   I remember this task of having to follow   a very specific metric on something   called a transcranial Doppler.

They   basically put an ultrasound on your   head, measure how fast the blood is   moving through certain vessels to   predict how much vasospasm is happening   and and titrate your medication   appropriately. And this summary so   beautifully covered all of the different   transcranial drop Doppler readings over   the course of the last week.

Identified   which vessels had either further   spasomed or not spasomemed in the   medication changes related. And I just   thought to myself, how many hours early   did I show up to work in order to bring   in synthesize that information and   present it appropriately in rounds? And   this was 30 seconds. It was mindblowing.

>> And you're lying. You didn't show up   early. You just didn't go home the night   before.   >> Yeah. No, no, that that's dead right.   And I think that, you know, we we that's   the way we need to think about using   this this technology. Um, is there   anything else on either either the ask   evidently or the uh the overview you   want to show me that we that we uh   didn't capture? We had a pretty good   pretty good look, but is there anything   else that you guys are doing that we   didn't get to that that uh that   evidently potential evidently users   might be interested in?   >> I think the other the the last thing   I'll mention in our last few minutes is   just the fact that we pull in data from   outside medical records and um from EHRs   means that when you get a longitudinal   view and I'll pick a a lab result to   show this. um when you get a   longitudinal view of someone's uh let's   say their sodium. So, you know, this is   just a list of sodiums, but the other   day when I pulled this up, it was a   newborn baby that had been transferred

from one system to an academic medical   center and we were actually looking at   their blood pressures. We had every   blood pressure in this baby's life. And   you just think of like we have the whole   story for once. we have the whole story   even though this baby has switched   systems even though all these different   things had happened and I think that's   the piece where like when you can   actually get the big picture of a   patient as they move through the   universe you can provide them with the   right care at the right time in a in a   novel way   >> and I think that is um Robbie Pearl came   on uh GCB about a year ago and he said   with this level of summarization   capability from these LLMs you know   you're obviously one of   the amount of data that we can now   create and now now go think about every   person with high blood pressure in   America taking their blood pressure five   times and now it's still on the ring or   the watch or whatever and you know   >> I had somebody the other day saying they   could show me contactless um well you

now have CG contact CGM glucose meters   but now people contactless blood   pressure and contactless CG you know   blood glucose and whatever weight god   knows what all the stuff that actually   matters that you know has been taken   sporically and doctors had no idea what   to do with this data.

You want this type   of tool to show you hang on this   matters. This doesn't, right? I've got   all this data. You don't have to look at   all this data. I will tell you I I I   these computer will tell you, you know,   when you have to pay attention and   summarize it for you and let you know   what's trending over time. And it   really, you know, if we get it right,   and what did Winston Churchill say about   Americans? They'll get do the right   thing.

They've done every other wrong   thing. We're doing a lot of wrong things   at the moment. If we get it right, you   know, we should enable   the jobs of clinicians to be much   easier, but also the care for patients   to be much better just because of doing   that, you know, and that's   >> I don't think we're going to solve   healthcare overnight, but I mean, we we   have this opportunity.

We really should   be be using it. That's great.   >> So, uh, why don't you turn that off and   let's talk a little bit about the the   boring mechanics of being a startup as   you join one. Um you guys raised a   pretty sizable not that sizable but not   nothing series A about a year ago. Was   that 25 million Riley? Give me give me   brief company's four years old.

>> Four years old. We raised our series A   last late last fall uh in October a   couple months before I joined. Um and   >> that was your signing bonus so presume   that's right. Yeah. I took all um so now   we don't have any money anymore. Um but   we have been obviously have an eye   towards um a series B and building up   our roster of clients to get there.

>> So tell me a little bit about tell me   about who's been how many people are on   the system, who's been using it, which   clients are you in now as as declared   clients, etc. Yeah. So, we have um   dozens of hospitals across the country.   Um academic medical centers, community   um hospitals, we have children's   hospital um ready children's health down   in Southern California.

Um and really our um we have thousands and thousands   of users um daily. Uh we have pretty   high adoption. Um once people know about   Evidently, they tend to use it um and   keep coming back to it. um which is   which is great. Um I would say that uh   hospitals that have lots of patients   moving in and out of their system um are   hospitals that tend to really uh use   this.

That can both look like an   academic medical center that's getting   transfers in or doing a lot of specialty   care or actually smaller community sites   that have to farm out a lot of that care   to other locations. Um so primary care   docs um at one of our um hospital   systems, Alina, um they are one of their   big challenges is making sure you know   each year you're supposed to make sure   that people have gotten their   colonoscopies, gotten their, you know,   retinal exams if they're diabetic.

But when all of that's happening outside of   their system, being able to pull in   those outside records and have them in   one spot to to kind of just keep track   of the checklist is uh is massively   helpful. Um, we're uh   >> on that on that point, can I go and this   is a thing I've never figured out in   American healthcare, but um my   individual health plan, good old Blue   Shield of California, has just started   showing me my medical data.

Doesn't   great job of it, but it's now it's   getting it right. It's getting it's   getting EMR data for out of Epic and   it's it's starting to show it to the   patient. But if you think about who has   the responsibility for figuring out that   somebody had their colonoscopy or their   cholesterol check or whatever you know   yes it should be their primary care   doctor but half the country doesn't have   a primary care doctor you know   >> right   >> that issue I want to do you think that   this tool I mean you didn't mention   health plans as client as yet but do you   think this this tool could be used by   the people doing essentially people   doing quality check you know they get   scored on this stuff at health plans   right they have measure totally   >> whatever is this the kind of thing you   do you think they're a market for you as   Yeah, I I definitely think so. So, we   certainly have um uh interest from right   now population health management.   >> Yeah.   >> Um   >> who are part of the proxy people   actually doing the work for the health.   >> Yeah. And I think um absolutely if   you're trying to figure out are my are   the the lives that I am responsible for,

you know, uh who have hypertension   getting their hypertensive meds. Um we   have a cohort tool that helps look at   you know huge numbers of patients tens   hundreds of thousands of patients and   pull out you know of these uh you know   uh 10,000 patients with hypertension how   many of them are on the hypertensive uh   medication whatever you know   >> uh class that they're supposed to be on   etc.

Yes, I'm not sure on LinkedIn at   the moment. Um, for those of you   watching this later, it's probably   probably pretty probably probably   irrelevant arguing with the people from   Cadence and Providence who just came out   with a report saying they bumped   hypertension goal management from 40% to   60% saying, "Well, we've gone from   really pretty damn terrible to not very   good.

">> I upset the CEO a bit, but it's   basically true. We should be doing a lot   better. And a lot of it is that we don't   have good information about who and who   to contact. And then the next question   is, how do you make sure they actually   take their damn meds?   do all the stuff that he's supposed to   do.

And you know, it's it's it's hard   because medicine is not just clinical   judgment. It's also influencing consumer   behavior. And you know, every every   doctor knows that every day, right?   >> And it's Yeah, it's about influencing um   someone with both the I think often in   medicine, we forget that like a   long-term goal may not ever feel   relevant to someone.

the long-term goal   of, you know, quitting smoking so you   won't get cancer 30 years from now, that   might not impact your ability to want a   cigarette. But the short term of knowing   that like maybe you'll be able to run   more in a week than you could this week.   I mean, I think we never break it up   that way for people.

We tend to focus on   these like extremely longitudinal things   without remembering like tell people how   their life will be better tomorrow and   then maybe you have a shot at getting   them to take the medication.   >> Yeah. And Cali smoked 30 cigarettes a   day. Yeah, no problem.   died died of heart disease in his 60s or   late 50s.

Could two factors could be   connected, you know, so   >> it may or may not be related.   >> Maybe pretty much was related. Anyway,   fantastic. Brilliant. So, um that's   that's super exciting. Uh give me a   rough scale. So, remind me how much you   raised uh a year ago. Is it 20?   >> Um I believe we raised I have to double   check um that number.

>> Give me a number. I'll fix it in the   comments. I want to say I think it was   25 million, but I might be wrong. I   might be   >> I think that might be right. I think it   was in that ballpark for sure on and and   so um and then you know the the other   thing I I'd ask on the sort of and the   scale of the company how many people are   you?   >> Uh we're a little a few dozen so we're   around 22   right now.

Um but or I think 22 is the   right number. Yeah.   >> Yeah. Okay. I mean so it gives you the   scale of the company and uh what do you   think? So I mean I would assume that you   are now with this new tool in massive   adoption mode and your job is to go out   Kai and evangelize to every doctor,   nurse practitioner, nurse, anybody you   can meet that they should buy this   thing.

Um   >> that's right.   >> What is the you mentioned about you know   when people see it they like it and want   to use it. What is that process? How how   much of this is community evangelizing?   How much of this is sort of higher level   sales? What do you think works in this   adoption curve?   >> Yeah.

So I mean I think one of the   challenges in healthcare is that um it's   being impressive and compelling to the   end user is not ultimately what's going   to make the the system adopt it. So   we've been really hyperfocused on making   sure that like obviously our goal is   that the end user is satisfied, they   have a good experience and that it's   useful to them.

But we also have to   appeal to the people that are ultimately   the decision makers around new   technology which you know are variable   in different organizations but often   involve um you know the CMOs the CMIOS   the CTO's um the CFOs um and so we've   taken great pains to make sure that when   we are introducing these new tools   making sure that we're capturing um not   only the function of the tool for the   end user but the function of the tool   for the organization and for revenue   capture quality capture for the   organization as well. So it's a been a   mix honestly of you know some clinicianf   facing um conferences and uh networks   and things like that alongside um the   places that the um financial components   of the healthcare organizations are more   likely to attend those those events as   well. So it's been a little bit of it's   multi-pronged is what   >> and then is this is it possible I

suspect the answer is no for you to to   do the to do the g guerilla introduction   of this where you could let clinicians   start using it on their own data records   without it or does it have to have so   many permission layers to get involved   in the actual   >> yeah I we wish um   >> I mean that's the way that's the way the   the scribes got it going right because   you could just do it on your phone it   describe and then you could copy and   paste it into your record and all of a   sudden the automation   >> that's right the problem is   >> yeah The problem is we need patient data   to do that and in order to access the   patient data we have to have all of the   >> probably have to have permission before   you go to jail. Yes, I get it. Oh well,   it's a pretty you can you can show   people and hopefully people watch this   demo and other stuff and and and get the   idea. Well, that's that's fabulous. And   then so let me let me ask you the uh the   sort of the big picture question. We   kind of danced around it, but what do I   mean take your hat off as an evidently   employee for the moment. I've just put   your physician hat back on for for a for   a for a second.   What do you think the   but there's one other thing we haven't

you haven't got in here which is I was   trying to get there with the plan but   the actual next thing you should do   which is by the way what GPTs are very   good at doing very confidently whether   it's right or wrong you know here's the   next thing should happen based on this   data maybe the data was wrong whatever   um what do you think the role of these   types of tools um is in physician   decision making as a whole clinician   decision-m as a   And at what point does it enable um the   I don't know how to say this delicately   and enable a much less skilled   practitioner to actually start making   those decisions. And I'll preface that   by saying that yesterday, two days ago   on the healthcare blog, my friend John   Neptune, who's an MD MBA who's been all   over digital health and whatever, just   took his ABM ABIM of these boards again   for internal medicine. Um, you know, and   he wrote this great saying, look,   physicians know a hell of a lot. Don't   tell me that you as a lay person can   possibly claim you know off that.   There's some stuff we have to know. But

on the other hand, AI tools like this   are gonna help us dramatically expand   what we do. We've seen a lot of the   examples here. But um at what point do   you go, "Yeah, I don't need to put that   level of responsibility on such an   expensive human being and I could   probably spread the the wealth of   medical knowledge and medical decisions   more democratically.

I mean, maybe   outside the US and think about other   countries." At what point do these kinds   of tools get to be like having the   answers and decisions in them rather   than being supporting for the current   system we have?   >> Yeah. I mean what I would say is that um   ultimately so we do have a we do have a   feature that drafts um an assessment.

We   stay away from drafting too much of a   plan for the very reason that we   actually think that that's a core   functionality of a clinician that we   want to continue to um rely on   clinicians to create. But what I would   say is that um essentially if you were   to present an LLM with a um idealized   version of the patient encounter, it can   often provide uh a a treatment plan.

Um, if you were to present an LLM with   the reality of a clinical encounter,   which is someone screaming, crying,   vomiting in front of you, which is like   as an ER doc, I think of like what does   a standard clinical encounter look like?   Um, there's very little that an LLM can   provide, right? And so I think   ultimately the the re the reality of   humanity   intersects with like data collection and   data analysis.

that data collection and   analysis piece um LLM are great at. But   but the reality of interacting with   human beings is that they are messy and   complicated and that messiness and that   complexity um it takes human beings a   long time to learn how to interact with   that in a way that extracts relevant   clinical information to make the best   next choice.

Um, who knows? Maybe we   will come up with a robot that manages   to adequately kind of portray um, you   know, all of the human connectedness   necessary to get to a place of a   clinical um, interaction that's   meaningful. I haven't seen it. Um, it   I'm not worried about clinicians losing   their jobs or being replaced by LLMs. I   think there's a powerful partnership   that can happen when you have the   research and the data analytics at your   fingertips.

But the truth is at every   juncture when we've begun imagining that   the lack of human interaction might be   the solution to the problem. Um it has   been a mistake. Uh in fact the friction   of human interaction is what makes us   feel relevant and connected to our   universe. So whenever we remove humans,   you know, you you can uh now um spend   your whole day, right? You can get your   food delivered to you without ever   looking at someone in the eye.

You can   get all of your advice from an LLM   without talking to somebody else. You   you can kind of have all these ways of   not being connected to human beings. But   I believe at the core of healthcare, um   that human connectedness is not only   important kind of clinically and   otherwise.

I I think it's also essential   to healing. There's not a way that you   heal without that human connectedness.   So, in my experience, like I I don't   know everything, but I um I'm not   worried that the robots are going to be   better at human connectedness than I am.   I feel pretty solid about that piece.   >> I can meet I can some humans who are not   that good at human connectedness.

>> Absolutely. Now, could they use a robot   to get better at human connection? For   sure. Well, look, that's going to be the   discussion of the next 30 years, right?   Is that how integrate these things I   just hope that by the time I'm uh old   enough to eon, which won't be that much   in the future, the the humanoid robots   would be able to change my diaper and   not complain too much about what comes   out.

So, that's my main that's my main   concern. These I was hoping that   robotics would have gone much further   and be able to change my kids diapers,   but then I realized that need to reset   my expectations. Think about it'll be   mine.   >> The timing on that one was   >> timing. Timing is always tough. That's   fantastic. All right.

I've been speaking   with Kyra. She is the head of clinical   uh head of clinical I forgot the last   two time clinical evidence   >> clinical success   >> clinical success uh at evidently you've   seen a long demo of their tools and   their new tool the evidently AI chatbot   and uh Kai thanks for your time really   fascinating talking with you   >> thank you so much really appreciate
























