Title: Katie Damico, Carequest--Integrating Oral Health into Medical Care
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FRp2Pfd3NZM
Language: en
Duration: 9:15
Upload Date: Nov 25, 2025

Transcription:

[music]   to sh a lightning quick tour of the oral   health pavilion. This is Katie Danico.   She is the wa you're the VP of   innovation at CareQuest   >> at innovation partners. Welcome to our   oral   >> pavilion. And this is CareQuest is a   foundation that and organization which   promotes oral health in all many of   ways.

So what do we got here? Yes, this   is our MDI medical dental integration   activation and so showcasing what can be   done in the dental setting. So we have   saliva screenings and A1C testing uh   done by both dental and medical   providers. And so within a couple   minutes you can see a lot more into your   overall health. And all of these are   things that can be done today in dental   practices.

And so this is all in   collaboration with our partners at 3DS   health   >> and also from Henry Shra.   >> Okay. So people now in dental practice   are coming in sitting down getting their   teeth looked at but also getting how do   you do the test?   >> Well, let's ask um Kelsey who does these   tests. Hi. We have Matthew here.   >> Hi Matthew.

>> Hi. So   >> explaining to his network how the tests   are done. How Oh, super easy. Would you   like to do one? Uh, apparently I've had   coffee so I can't. Just tell me just   just quickly hold it up and show what it   looks like.   >> Yeah, absolutely. So, we have this   wonderful little what we call a   screening kit.

>> Okay. Inside the screening kit, you'll   have a um little cup. You'll have some   sterile solution. We have a syringe that   helps us pick up that saliva once it is   um squished in your mouth. And then we   have a little stick in here. This is the   actual test cassette. It looks very   similar to a um uh what am I thinking?   Um I don't want to say   >> you want to say pregnancy.

>> It does. It does. It very much looks   like a pregnancy test. But what happens   is with the sterile solution, I pour it   into this little into this cup here. I   then ask the patient to swish in their   mouth vigorously for 30 seconds. Once   they're done swishing, they go ahead and   spit back into that cup.

And then I suck   it up with this little syringe here. I   do put this stopper on at the end and I   drop three drops into that test kit.   Once I do that, I enter it into this   machine here and then I go ahead and hit   start and it takes just 5 minutes on the   machine to get your results.   >> And what are the results? Sorry, what   are the tests?   >> What is the test? What is the screening   that we are doing?   >> What one of the one of the things?   >> So, what we are screening for is   something called MMP8.

MMPA stands for matrix metallopro 8.   It's one of the most validated   biomarkers that we have and it helps us   in uh monitoring and detecting collagen   breakdown. So inflammation within the   body. One of the most collagen pieces in   our body is our gums. Right? Our gums   start to break down over time.

It could   lean into bacteria. And so what this   screening does is it helps our dentist   to be more proactive rather than   reactive in the care that they provide   for any clinical evidence is safe.   >> So I get a bad result in that. What does   that mean for the next steps?   >> Yeah. So what would that mean? So it   means quite a few things, right? So, it   depends on your exam with your dental   practitioner.

So, it depends on how does   your x-rays look like. Um, how was the   cleaning done? If you had a what we   consider a more rapid score here, um,   they would probably offer you to do   certain treatment plans. So, again, I   can't really say because it does go off   of what your exam would look like in   your images, but it could be things such   as, hey, um, you should have another   deep cleaning done.

Maybe they'll offer   therapy, um, laser therapy, any other   abjunctive services to help you decrease   that inflammation over time. Other   things that we do too is we'll send you   out for further labs. So, let's say for   instance that everything looks great,   you know, from a clinically um based   evidence area, you know, your teeth look   great, but maybe your score is high.

That means something else is happening   actively in your body that they cannot   see with the naked eye. So, they'll send   you out for blood work to see if they   can find something else and then refer   you over to your medical prep   practitioner. All right, Katie, one word   on the integration of oral and oral and   and body whole body health and then take   me on the rest of the tour quick.

>> It matters and it's happening and now is   the time for us to really start to move   the needle on changing the system. And   through medical and dental integration,   you can start to improve outcomes,   access, and equity allin one. And so   we're really excited and committed to   advancing it together with our amazing   partners here in this pavilion.

>> All right, Katie. So, uh, CareQuest, uh,   does a lot of innovation and investing.   Uh, here's a group of your startups.   What do you guys do in that area?   >> Yes. So, we have our, uh, smile   accelerator and community. Uh, we just   wrapped up our fourth cohort. And so, we   work together with 20 different   corporations and investor partners to   really accelerate mission aligned   innovation focused on improving access,   equity, and integration.

Uh so in this   pavilion you'll see some of our alumni,   some of our portfolio companies.   Portfolio companies focus a lot around   increasing access and also prevention.   And so whether through telead dentistry   or mobile dentistry um would love you to   learn more about those and introduce you   to one of our current smile accelerator   cohort companies. Uh first grade.

>> All right. This is Dr. Ashley Lur   Lurman.   >> Lurman Lurman from from first grade.   Ashley, tell me about first company.   >> Yes, absolutely. So, I started a   preventive oral health tech company. So,   we work with major payers across the   country, both medical and dental,   hospital partnerships, dental offices,   medical offices, and we send out oral   care kits alongside an app to help   people from educate on oral disease.

>> And you your background is or your   qualifications are?   >> I'm a board certified pediatric dentist   and a mom of two,   >> which that's the easy job.   That's right.   >> All right. So uh first off, what's   what's wrong with oral health for   pediatrics and then what's your kid do?   >> Absolutely.

So oral disease and cavities   are kids number one chronic disease. We   know a single cavity in the baby triples   your risk of cavities in the adult   teeth. So it really sets a stage down   the line. So what we do is we send out   preemptive kits alongside information   through our app to connect to resources   and access to care to prevent disease   for the whole family unit, not just   children, but adults as well.

>> And show me the kid, please.   So, they're very fun, sweet kits. We   have a our patented smile sleeve, so you   start wiping the gums before the child   has teeth. A toothbrush, a teaser, a gum   brush, and a little travel pouch, as   well as a little tip, tips and tricks   insert, and what to use, how to use it,   and when.

>> All right, so I use this kind of What   happens next?   >> So, you get prompted to jump onto the   app and then we send you reminders. Did   you go to your preventive appointment to   go in for your checkups? You can if   there was an emergency, call a telead   dentist. There are FAQs, blogs,   everything that you need and you get   rewarded for brushing and flossing at   home.

>> So for first grin, who's who's paying   you? How do you get paid? And how do you   integrate into like the wider dental   system where they come see you in their   office?   >> Totally. I'm obsessed with medical   dental integration. So we work with   payers across medical and dental. They   pay us either in bulk for kits as well   as app access through a PMP model,   hospital partnerships, and then we're   also direct to consumer.

So, this blew   up in the baby registry space because   people just really love this.   >> All right, fantastic. And give me a   quick background on how long you've been   doing First Grin.   >> It's been almost four years since I   started First Grin.   >> I know you're still presumably   practicing. Are you still also   practicing as well? Is this your   full-time?   >> This is my full-time gig now.

So, we've   uh it's a typical case of entrepreneur   entrepreneurship ruining a perfectly   good well-trained clinical professional   and making her a CEO. I'm not sure I'm   not sure that should be encouraged. It   sounds like you're doing it sounds like   you're doing great work. Fantastic. So,   Katie um tell me tell me a little bit   more about how big and how much effort   you're putting into this sort of whole   innovation group.

>> Yes. So, we are you know we we know we   can't do it alone. We know there's a lot   to be done in this space and at   CareQuest we remain committed to really   moving the needle forward and so we do   that together with the ecosystem of   companies from startups to corporates to   across the CareQuest Institute.

We work   with some federally qualified health   centers, investors, you know, you name   it. We It takes a village and we know we   can't do it alone. So, we're advancing,   you know, all of this together with our   partners. Fantastic. All right. Well, uh   I mean talking with Katie Demiko and a   quick cameo from Dr.

Ashley Layman there   um about the integration of oral health   with I've always thought you know your   mouth your your brain and your body are   all in the same   >> organ organism and somehow we decided   they're all separate and it's probably   not a great idea. Um, and I look forward   the more I bang on about integrating   primary care and making it available,   the more I think that uh, you know, we   need to figure out how to get all hair   into that as well.

So, let's hope let's   keep the conversation going about that.   Katie, thanks for your time.   >> Thank you. Thank you.

