Title: Kevin Wang, Chief Medical Officer, Suki
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=S6RiGo4etws
Language: en
Duration: 20:15
Upload Date: Mar 28, 2026

Transcription:


Okay, Matthew, I know him. This is Kevin   Wang. He is the chief medical officer of   Suki, which has a very fancy poster and   people with fancy cameras wandering   around spending all of Venrock's money   or whoever else gave them money these   days. So, Suki is one of the several   companies that started off in the   business of ambient ambient scribing and   now does what, Kevin?   >> Now does what? The official terminology   is suki is in the ambient clinical   intelligence space.

 We are defining and   redefining what that actually means. And   for us it manifests in two ways. One is   our core suki app is a first party app   that's highly adopted, highly utilized,   highly satisfactory to clinicians,   mostly physicians start when they have   encounters with patients. What comes   downstream of that? We pull the audio,   we pull the transcript, we pull the   clinical content, we output a series of   things that help across the healthcare   spectrum.

 Four main ways we grew, as you   mentioned, out of the clinical   documentation space, soon to be upcoming   more into the assisting of revenue cycle   space. Then further clinical reasoning,   which we'll describe a little bit, is a   little bit different than decision   support. And lastly, operations. So   that's all our core Suki app, Suki for   clinicians business.

 The other half   which may be equally or of more interest   is suki for partners which is we are   enabling other health tech to achieve   their aspirations in the ambient space   by virtue of them utilizing suki's   software development kits or APIs to   enable their technology to grow and by   that in a business model we grow   mutually   >> all right well let's start with the   first chunk um so people have said you   know ambcribing is something which has   gone from being completely magic to a   commodity in the quickest time. You guys   actually started a while back a little   bit before well I mean actually around   the same time as a bridge and some of   the others and of course Newance was   doing its thing but um uh and then   obviously things changed with this whole   LLM   release and you know around the early 20   2022 and onwards can you describe a   little bit about you know Suki's   progression in that core application how   how good it became how quickly and then

  uh how that gets used for these those   other three things you mentioned. Yeah,   we believe and um and if we can use   names that you know the class report as   an example like independent thirdparty   validators have shown that Suki drives   real value in our Suki for clinicians   business and so when you think about how   much we've grown um as you mentioned a   lot of this was in sort of a   documentation space but we've since   moved towards what other elements can we   actually assist a provider a clinician   in doing um of which documentation is a   big part but there are other elements   that come along with it. So Suki's   progression in how we look at note   quality uh it actually paces the same of   how we have different feature and   functionality. For example, the reason   that bucket 2 is something related to   revenue cycle is there are coding based   elements that have traditionally been   put to a provider as you know from your   recent um cloud written article um which   is which is I actu
ally believe when um   the statement you said of uh sort of a

  reckoning can you actually fix the root   problem that's very much what Suki is   aspiring to do so you'll see um we have   to do all the elements we have to get uh   the note into an EHR but We also are   going outside the EHR. And so you'll see   that progression has sort of paced where   the industry needs a lot of value.

 The   parts that connect all elements that   take a provider's time that could   otherwise be automated and used more for   patient facing time. That's very much   been the vision of how Suki's proceeded   with our product development.   >> All right. I've heard a couple of I had   somebody on stage.

 I think it was the   head of AI at Cedab, but it might have   been another big system. who may or may   not may or may not be a Suki client.   They were saying basically that so far   the ambient documentation stuff made   their providers happier but didn't   actually seem to change the the numbers.   Uh what's your sense from a provider but   from a clinician perspective?   >> It sounds like everyone's very happy to   have it.

  >> Yeah.   >> But I mean do you think it's actually   changing what they do yet? Yeah, I think   the happiness is no small feat. Yeah.   And so   >> they were very unhappy because we gave   this lovely thing called epic and they   were there was some grumpiness of Bob   Walk to run a big book about it.   >> Right. That's right.

 And so I think   those elements are are good. Right. The   the you know the satisfaction they have   the efficiency gains they have. No doubt   it's reconnected the uh clinician to   patient piece by virtue of conversations   like this rather than me sitting and   looking this way typing on a laptop. I   think what you're starting to see and   and and I'll cite the the class report   as an example.

 So that's their study of   Suki. You can see the efficiency gains.   They've quantified that. That turns into   an actual, you know, ROI. So I think if   we had done this interview a year ago, I   think the jury may have still been out   about where there's actual ROI. So I   think now we're we're very firmly   certain, well, there's actual financial   ROI.

  >> Interestingly,   >> so where where's the ROI in the report?   Is it from time saved or is it from a   revenue bump? Well, give me give me   >> There's a few different buckets. So,   there are estimates to time saved and I   think that would be to us that's icing   on the cake.   >> Yeah.   >> The true elements would be it is   capturing elements that would have   otherwise been omitted or not recalled   by a provider.

 This has direct pieces   that tie to the value of reimbursement   for clinical work already done. So the   hard ROI comes from, hey, this is a more   accurate code for work you've already   done, which has this element of a   reimbursement rate. And we've seen that   uptick in several of our clients.   >> Okay.

 A lot of people are talking about   that and even I think Chris from   Medicare mentioned this the other day.   At some point, if everybody is clever   enough to figure out how to build more   for the same thing they're already   doing, presumably at some point the uh   the the payers at Medicare and Austria   are going to say, "Hang on, you're   already doing all this stuff already.

  We're not going to pay you more." Where   do you think that plays out?   >> There are there are conversations like   that happening. So, you know, one of my   the most uh fun conversations I had was   a society of actuaries conference. So,   there couldn't be more diverse opinions   that range from AI just broke risk   adjustment to AI is solving what in   healthcare is very antiquated.

  >> ICD10s are 20 years old.   >> Yeah.   >> At the time of this,   >> um ICD11s are already done. So   healthcare has always been a lagard and   so when you think about forgetting to   prospective payment which exists to some   degree but outcomesbased quality based   are you driving meaningful change in   your patient outcomes those are things   that AI hasn't really intersected with   but Suki has that Suki is looking to see   hey we see the financial piece let's see   its other deeper further impact I think   that's real now when you look at   reimbursement I mean it depends on what   kind of conversation we want like for   Medicare advantage for ACA for other   government payers. You're right. It's uh   the payers also want more specific   coding capture from accurate   documentation. I think at some point,   let's say that we'll get to some level   of accuracy that uh is fair. I think   that's actually a good place. It doesn't   break risk adjustment. It doesn't break   reimbursement. It still allows v
alue   based outcomesbased orientation, which   is a lot of what you hear me talk about.

  It still allows that to proceed. More   importantly, it starts to hit at what's   centric to patients, providers, and   health systems, which is they all sort   of win. Um, and there doesn't have to   really be a loser. If there's one thing   of where these savings come from, it's   saving on waste.   >> Yeah.   >> It is you can spend a lot of money, and   your article gets credit for this.

 You   spend more money chasing the negotiation   as opposed to spending some of that   fixing the problem. Suki has a chance to   fix the problem. All right. Uh, I'll buy   that. Um, tell me I want to go into I   want to go into uh how Siku is dealing   with the world of EMRs. But first, tell   me about the partners program because   that's that's new to me.

 Who who who,   what, and and why?   >> Yeah. Who, what, and why   >> are using it?   >> I'll try to hit those. So, um, who,   what, and why? So, um, different sectors   are leveraging Suki's technology to make   their tool. The obvious ones are other   EHRs. So picture um they have a   specially specific one. They're only in   this site of care. Maybe this is rehab.

  Maybe this is long-term acute care. But   picture um they don't have an aspiration   to build this technology themselves. So   they want to use   >> well the next one would be um like   tellahalth. So there are national   telealth companies that say also we   don't want to build the ability to   discern speech intent extraction be LLM   agnostic look at different languages.

  We're going to use suki tools. So, uh,   you know, tellahalth, tele virtual is   another one. Then care management's   another one. Then you have smartware and   hardware like, uh, the little badges or   hardware that, you know, like this that   we're using. So many different sectors   are are looking this way.

 And, you know,   coming here from HIMS, we're seeing a   lot of interest in that side of the   business. And just picture its   applications range from things that fall   within the EHR, but just as many fall   outside of the EHR.   >> All right. Can you can you name some   names about current partners? M.   >> Current partners. Yeah.

 So some of the   public ones. So um health edge as an   example um Athena is booth is somewhere   here. You may think well they have their   own EHR. Well they also have a version   of Suki inside native Athena that is   very attractive. Um and so you're   starting to see players like that that   are uh prominent in their own spaces   utilizing Suki technology to further   enhance their product suite.

  >> All right. Um let's talk about the   relation with EMRs. Uh obviously the the   big kahuna somewhere out in the hall.   Epic has now introducing its own version   of the uh the ambient scribing. Um   they've had a lot of back and forth with   other other players notably bridge and   elsewhere others in this.

 Um what's your   sense of how this plays out? Um you know   it's kind of similar to the question   about the big LMS right is there any   real difference between chat GPT and   Claude and Meta AI and you know whatever   Microsoft's going to throw out. Is there   any switching cost? Obviously, we've   seen Kaiser already switch from Naba to   a bridge, you know, a while ago.

 You   know, they say it's all they all said,   we didn't even test it. It's just the   same kind of thing.   >> So, I I you know, what's your sense of   how   the market between EMRs plays out and   how do the how do companies like Suki   and you mentioned some of the things   you're doing sort of get a uh build what   the VCs call a moat?   >> Yeah.

 So I think just to to answer it   sort of directly first, Suki is agnostic   to EHRs in the sense that um until   there's only one EHR, Suki will always   be in a good space because certain EHRs   pro like you mentioned some of them like   Epic probably are larger and more uh   broadly utilized than others. But there   are others that play only in skilled   nursing facilities, only in ambulatory.

  So until that becomes one, there's   always going to be an element of   agnosticism where if you want the same   provider feeling and flow and outcomes,   you're going to need to connect to the   EHRs. If I were to swag, I always say   the essence swag is scientific. If I   were to give a swag, I would say um EHRs   have a reasonable chance to get some   percentage of the way there quickly.

 Uh   depending on what gets announced when,   maybe you get 50% of the way there   pretty quickly, or maybe you get 70% of   the way there. Well, that last 30% is   something that Well, where does that   connect? Well, can your EHR connect to   something like a revenue cycle solution?   Is it competitive with its own? Can it   connect to a clinical reasoning content   engine? Would that content engine want   to go exclusive to that EHR? Um and and   if you don't believe me, some of our   clients, um some of the larger   integrated delivery networks and houses   that span multiple states, they've told   me they have in the hundreds hundreds of   active health tech subscriptions, they   pay every month. So until that list of   hundreds starts to whittle down, um   there's always going to need there's   always going to be a need for Suki to   work both with the EHRs and also those   elements that fall outside the EHR.   >> Okay. What's your sense about the sort   of the uh uh the independent switching

  cost you know between the different   ambient there's now a group that are   sort of I don't know how many ambient   products there were originally but   there's now a group of a handful of   companies who clearly raised a lot of   money put their heads above the parapet   and you know now fighting for market   share and kind of mostly saying some of   the same sort of things you sense about   how that plays out   >> yeah I think there's a big difference   between a featureto feature comparison   meaning um What was it? Kia, I think   years ago, blindfolded actual customers,   removed the badges from their vehicle,   put them in there, and said, "Well, what   kind of car do you think it is?" And the   stories played out where   >> the customer made their own kind of feel   of like, "Oh, well, this has to be this   German car or that one." And it's like,   "Oh, it's a Kia." I think it was Kia. Um   so I think on a feature by feature basis   uh ehrs for the most part have some   degree of functionality that t
hat that   waivers within uh you know some spectrum   of uh things they can add or subtract. I

  think I find that to be true. Um I think   what you're getting now with this kind   of as you mentioned uh replacement or   you're coming to the end of the early   buying curve. I think that's really what   your question is which is I've tried X   tool for a year 18 months or you know   not many more that I've heard more than   24 months because that would have been   before like you mentioned some of the   more recent LLM so it's not more than 18   months 24 months where you're seeing   this curve where they say hey this is   what I like about XYZ this is what I   don't and so we think the big   differentiator is the same answer as   when I said before about meaningful   actual did you actually meaningfully   change the challenge or did you just   merely bring uh you know an age-old   issue back more front and center and and   with with and more real time to a   provider and so I'll give you some   examples of that. Um if you think about   uh some people are saying well I'm not   sure between Suki and XYZ 
and then you I

  ask them just two or three questions.   Who do you use for revenue cycle? Oh you   use them they happen to be a Suki   partner. Who do you use for care   management? Oh, you use them. That's a   Suki partner. And so it makes it much   easier to say, hey, well, you know what?   Suki has an awesome firstparty app and   experience that every provider loves.

  I've been using the the the um analogy   to like veneers. The veneer is Suki.   Providers love it. You're starting to   see value. Patients start to see value   from it. Well, what if that same   ecosystem of other things like   tellahalth, like care management, like   smartware is also powered by Suki? makes   it much easier to go with Suki as the   choice rather than adding to too many   point solutions that have to be one-off.

  So I always keep in mind the bigger the   more complex the organization but even   the smaller ones, right? I used to run a   medical group where we also had dozens   and dozens of point solutions. It's a   time where you can use ambient   technology to start to put more of those   together to make them work for you.

  >> All right. Uh let's end with we were   talking off camera about the future of   of of AI and all the rest of it. Let's   not talk about the Terminator, but let's   say you're you're a doctor. Um, when all   this AI stuff rolls out, whether it's   clinical intelligence or am I   intelligence or whatever you want to   call it, AI in the workflow, do you   think this changes what a clinician   does?   >> We've had basically the same model   forever.

  >> Yeah.   >> You meet in a small room with a patient,   you say some stuff. Uh, how does that   change based on the technology we see   rolling out? Yeah.   >> Um I tend to tell stories. You can cut   this out if it goes too long, but here's   a story. This is real.   >> Yeah.   >> Um uh there's a there's a a landmark   textbook of pathology.

 Every medical   institution in the US uses it. It's   probably on its 50th edition.   Um when I was in medical school a couple   decades ago, um I'm sitting there taking   an exam. One student gets up about 30   minutes in. He goes talks to the   professor. The professor of pathology   opens the textbook of pathology. They go   to some page like 350.

 They go to some   caption on some image.   Professor professor comes on the mic and   says there are two answers to question   88. Meaning something some nugget of   information that was from some   publication   was in this case recalled by a student   and he knew that exact page that it was   on. The good the good of where we're   heading in the future is that type of   recall, that type of speed is now   available to train and help and augment   many many clinicians.

 That's the good   part of it. You no longer have to chase.   You no longer have the speed. You no   longer have the duration of times you   did. The the flip side or perhaps the   word of caution is so much of medicine   at its core is see one, do one, teach   one. It's b it's based on synthesis.   That synthesis is one where a lot of our   clients want to make sure that what   we're aiding and delivering doesn't   replace the thinking, the deduction, the   recognition. And so that's the danger.

  And so you start to see things where   someone says, "Well, I could use this   preeminent source of clinical   information or I could use this one   that's free and I get a 70% correct   answer." You said it off camera, too. If   the AI has a veil of confidence that is   then accepted as truth, that's the   danger.

 That's what we have to watch out   for. For Suki, that's why we have teams   of clinicians. That's why we have groups   in the US and in India that go and audit   and check. There always has to be the   same adage that you probably remember   for 2018. For us at Suki, it's Suki plus   AI is better than provider without AI.   So in that equation, we don't say   replaces doctor.

 We say it augments, it   assists, it helps. That's going to be   what differentiates Suki going forward.   >> All right, great. So, quick uh quick   overview of where Suki is your company   now. I forget how much money you raised,   but a lot. Um how many how many people   do you have? Uh how many clients,   hospital, systems clients? How do you   define it? Give me some give me some   metrics as to where you are.

  >> I can give you some metrics. Um at the   time of this filming, uh north of 430   some odd clients. Okay, that client cat   list includes health systems, hospitals,   medical groups and also account of of   partners that we have. And so when we   think about the volume that Suki does um   it is in the millions of transactions   this year will be tens of millions of   transactions that we perform.

 So picture   the use cases are different as we went   through um this could be uh one in one   provider using many many encounters.   This could be something in care   management. So by any definition, Suki   is grow well, Suki is growing this way   very very quickly. And so this type of   growth curve also has teams that grow   across the US um and in our other   headquarters in India and we think   that'll continue for this year.

  >> How many people roughly you in the   company now?   >> We're going to be well over 300.   >> Okay.   >> And growing.   >> And the final question of course, when   do coach and Roberts get their money   back?   Well, that's going to be yeah, that's   going to be a teaser for your   viewership, which is But I will say this   on a serious note.

 Um, Suki is   methodical. Suki is not in this for some   degree of a quick flip.   >> Um, Suki wants to solve the core of a   lot of these challenges within   healthcare. We want to get the system   right. That's very much how we're   plotting forward.   >> All right, Kevin Wong, who's the chief   medical officer of Suki.

 Kevin, thanks   for your time.   >> Thank you very much. Thanks for having   me.


