Title: Lauren Ranalli, Town Square Health
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=147YKxPZQMU
Language: en
Duration: 20:37
Upload Date: Mar 6, 2026

Transcription:


[music]   Okay, this is Matthew Hodler at TCB   Spotlight. I'm here with Lauren Reelli.   She is the VP of community and patient   engagement at Town Square Health. If you   haven't noticed, it's on her t-shirt   right there. Well done. Don't don't   knock that that mic on. Um All right. Um   so you guys are a medical provider   medical group focused on the senior   population   >> correct?   >> Um tell me more about the company.

 Tell   me more about the organization.   >> Absolutely. So town square health we are   in our first year. We u became   incorporated in June. Um our CEO David   Buchanan uh he is an uh internal   physician internal medicine physician.   He's the former uh chief medical officer   at Oak Street Health. And then when they   were bought out by CBS, he became the   chief innovation officer for health at   CVS um back until March when he left to   found Time Town Square Health.

 And a   bunch of us who know and have worked   with David um in the past sort of came   on as our initial leadership team. So we   are going to be opening new multispety   healthc care centers um to see Medicare   patients, so mostly 65 and older um   beginning this fall. And in a couple of   weeks, I will be able to share where we   are going to be opening our first   centers.

 Um, and we're very excited   about it. And really the model is a way   of bringing together in-person primary   care with simultaneous uh virtual   specialty care. So, we're very excited   about the way we're going to kind of   shape up how people think about a   traditional visit with their PCP.   >> All right. Fantastic.

 I, as you probably   know, have written a fair amount about   primary care and concage care for all   and uh how are we going to fix this? On   the other hand, you mentioned Oak   Street, there's the Ioras, the world,   the Chen meds, and there is a long list   going back 30 years of people who have   tried to build primary care for seniors.

  >> Not always gone that well.   >> Not always gone that well.   >> So, and many cases gone out of business   with devastating results. Okay. So, why   is it different for Time [music] Square?   Yeah, I think a couple of things and I   one of the things that I really do   believe is that this model we're   building solves a major pain point for   patients and for caregivers which is   that right now you know so many places   you are not seeing your PCP or your   specialist in the same health system or   even if you are your providers are not   necessarily they're not talking to each   other they're not coordinating your care   and the all of the care coordination   really does fall on you. So I'll give a   personal example. So, I live in a city   that has phenomenal healthcare. We have   like a worldrenowned academic medical   assistant. I can't get a PCP there. Even   though they're closed to new patients,   even though I've been seeing specialists   there for 15 plus years, I can't see a   PCP there.   >> 
So, you live in Boston or Houston or San   Francisco, one of the two.   >> I live in Ann Arbor. I love the

  University of Michigan. I've heard I've   heard.   >> Yeah. Yeah. So, Michigan big football   stadium, I believe. Yes.   >> Big football stadium. Yeah. So, but   Michigan Medicine has worldrenowned   healthcare and I love all my specialty   kids. So it's like getting a season   ticket to University of Michigan.

 Almost   impossible unless someone unless someone   dies.   >> They won't even Yeah. They won't put me   on a wait list.   >> So I see a concierge PCP um in a   different system with, you know, so   different patient portals, different   loginins, all that stuff, different EMR   than my all my specialty care. And when   I go to see my PCP and she says to me,   "Well, what did your endocrinologist say   to you at your last visit?" And I go, "I   don't know. That was four months ago.

  Like why don't why don't you know? Like   why can't you know?" And so what this   does in our model is it brings in this   way of sitting in a room with your PCP   and on the screen is my endocrinologist   and the three of us are having a   conversation and the three of us are   coordinating my care and I don't have to   wait 6 months to get in then with my   specialist and sort of try to translate   between those providers and also you   know for our Medicare population a lot   of times family members are the   caregivers right they're bringing their   mom or their dad or their whoever their   spouse to an appointment. But often   times, you know, somebody's somebody's   caregiver or sort of primary contact   might live in another state, you know.   So, if my mom is seeing her PCP in   Florida, and if this were a town square   health um center, I could join her visit   virtually as well to be able to sort of   also be there as like a support system.   So, I think that pain point of your   providers not tal
king to each other,   patients going months between   appointments from PCP and specialists,

  we really resolve that. And I think that   will will fundamentally change how we   experience healthcare and maybe even   what we expect out of healthare.   >> So just to push on you a little bit   >> kind of Oak Street and ShenMed and and   uh Iora to pick three   >> kind of said they were doing that before   right they were cav were capitated at   risk for the whole thing.

 They were   working with specialists. They were   working with health coaches.   >> Did they just not do it properly and you   think it could be done better or were   they really just not doing it? You going   to do something different? They were   doing it in the sense that like they   would offer teleaalth visits and they   would offer econults.

 It was not within   a single visit. And so I think this is   really iterating on like what we've   learned from what they've done well. And   David Buchanan helped build a lot of   that at Oak Street. He was leading   provider teams. He was leading the   technology team. He was leading the   population health team for a while. So   his expertise like from an   administrative level as well as being a   physician for over 25 years I think   really brings an exceptional lens and   focus to what we're doing.

  >> All right, let's talk about the other   side of the business and I mentioned a   little bit   >> how do these how these groups get paid.   So take uh Privier which has actually   done pretty well in the public market   >> mostly a fever service business   >> some of the cavitating groups uh not   done so well uh you know   >> we can mention Oak Street maybe you know   >> CVS paid too much   >> but wrote down a big number care same   thing with Walgreens   >> lot of bankruptcies cuz people couldn't   figure out how to manage cavitation and   that goes back to the '9s when m you're   too young but mikin and friendly hills   you know were around Yeah.   >> What's going to be the business model   here?   >> What's going to be the smart thing?   >> The business model.   >> Oh, I see. Yeah. So, we um we will be   doing value based care. We will be   looking to take full risk with our   patients with the payers, you know, as   soon as soon as possible within each   payer model to get to that risk contract   um 
to be to make sure that what we are   doing is keeping our patients healthy,   keeping them um you know out of the

  hospital. We're also really engaging AI   in a way that will reduce the number of   roles needed within the health center.   Um, so that I think we are going to be   very efficient in terms of staffing   models which can really account for so   much of the costs of of a business. Um,   and we'll be utilizing AI in ways that   with a total goal of improving humanto   human interaction and communication.

 So   never replacing something that a human   really should be doing with a patient,   but making sure that all of the sort of   the behind the scenes things, some of   the, you know, the prior off, some of   the like cycle pieces when it can be   automated will be automated so that the   provider can spend more time focused on   the patient, focused on care.

 And our   care navigator role again is also going   to be the person who's sort of assigned   to a patient, taking them through sort   of the cycle of their visit and also the   things that they're going to need in   between visits. and that anything else   that we can automate and reduce the need   for FTE within the health center uh we   will.

  >> All right. What do you think that means   for two things quickly? One is   >> maybe you can compare with Oak or one of   the others you mentioned how how many   FTEEs on top of each doctor were there   for them and how much do you think there   will be for Town Square   >> and then what does that look like? Yeah.

  >> What does that look like for the   patients given that you have a senior   population? You have a senior population   >> who everyone says don't use technology   and if they do   >> what what do you think some of the   economics of that look like and what do   you think the experience is going to be?   >> Yeah.

 So I can talk mostly to what I   think the experience will be which is   that we are really trying to narrow down   the patient experience to be they're   going to be interacting with two people.   They are interacting with their care   navigator and their PC. So when they   come in and they check, their navigator   is checking them in, taking them through   the visit, is in the role of like an   expanded medical assistant so that   they're not being handed off from person   to person to person within the visit.

 So   really, the care team is the provider   and that care navigator. It's two core   central people who are impanled to that   patient. It's the same, they see the   same care navigator, the same PCP,   unless someone's on vacation, you're   sick, you know, every single time. So it   really builds that relationship and it   really builds that trust.

 Um, and it   also minimizes the number of touch   points that a patient has to go through.   And then of course you have other people   in the health center. You've got a   practice manager, right? You've got   somebody, there's a lab and all those   things. But in terms of like the need   for a provider to have, you know, six   different people working with them   within a visit, we've really streamlined   that.

  >> Okay. So should cost less, should be   better experience. Let's talk about the   issue that you raised in your own care   and it's certainly been a big problem in   my care and in many people other care   which is   >> yeah it's great to have a consult with a   specialist the specialist can come in   during the visit and you can work   together at some point something bad   happens somebody has to go into the big   academic medical center or   >> the hospital or whatever   >> and at that point often there is a   massive chasm between what happens there   information flow back and forth   coordination that's been a massive   problem in American healthcare since   >> huge problem   >> I want to 1900, but probably since, you   know, 1775 or when or maybe 1624 or   whenever.   >> Yeah.   >> How are you managing that process?   >> Yeah. So, you're right. I mean, there   are certainly going to be things that we   can't nor should we solve within, you   know, our visits, right? If you're   having a heart attack
, go to the   hospital. Like, if you're having, you   know, if you need surgery, you're going   to the hospital. You're not, you know,   there there are things that like we're   not going to be doing in X, nor could we   prevent. Um and so for that you know one   of the problems right now especially in

  feif for service medicine in the   disconnect is that the um when somebody   let's say goes to the ER the primary   people that the emergency room contacts   um is the insurance payer because they   want to get paid you know for that   visit. So they're not necessarily   thinking oh I also need to contact the   PCB.

 In fact very rarely do they does   the emergency room notify the PCB.   However, in a valuebased model where you   are sort of taking that full risk and   you have that sort of relationship with   um you're sort of taking on some of that   like payer aspect um it is going to be   easier I think for PCPs to um get   updates and be notified and get   notifications within the system that   like our patient is in the hospital   right now and therefore we might   actually send a caregregator to the   hospital to sort of like help and figure   out with what's going on there and like   make sure that like they're being   transitioned right naturally being   discharged well and doing what sitting   on a gurnie for 12 hours in the   emergency room right   >> and really I mean and one of the   greatest risks of sort of being admitted   to the hospital is like being quickly   readmitted right and so making sure that   like we're following up with them   immediately um and checking in you know   with their point of care 
people um to   try and prevent that readmission   whenever possible so I think just the

  nature of value based care but also sort   of the way we're developing our care   teams um and we're going to be very   intentional with developing community   relationships with all the ERs, with all   the hospital systems um to make sure   that like they understand that we are an   expanded part of that care team.

 Um, and   whenever we talk to uh ER physicians and   we explain the model to them, they feel   like it's a sigh of relief because they   feel like one they they know who they'll   be able to talk to and also they have so   many patients who come into the ER don't   have a PCP and so and being able to say   like   >> you've been reading my stuff and you're   quoting my I quiz ER docs about this all   the time.

  >> The number is 30%. Some say it's 40,   some say it's 45   >> but of people who come in and of those a   big chunk somewhere in the third half   quarter to a third get admitted   >> because they didn't have a PCP wasn't   looking after all their stuff there.   There is so much room for us to fix   primary care out of control at this   point   >> and we have and we have done such a   lousy job as a nation fixing it   >> and the thing that worries me and you   know your your is that um and I don't   know how I'd be interested in how your   personal concier edge   >> do gets paid because   >> I think I think we've put a lot of   pressure on cavitated medical groups to   manage the uh to manage the risk and   that's been tough for a lot of these   groups a lot of them have gone out of   business   >> so I hope you get it I   >> I'm worried that you know I I think you   can probably just be paid to look after   the primary care and if you do what you   say you're doing   >> as long as we pay you more   >> then 
you're than primary care currently   get seen the service   >> right   >> which is the problem that it's way too

  low primary care doctors can't get paid   enough yada yada yada   >> um I think it would save money on the   hospital side anyway   so let me ask you how does your how does   your quantity edge care practice your   personally in how do they get paid Yeah.   Well, first of all, um I want to say   like we we believe that is like   concierge level care.

 It's not actually   concierge care because there's no   additional cost to the patient, right?   Like the way we think about traditional   concierge medicine like with my PCPs, I   pay for the privilege of being on their   panel, right? And so we're providing   that level of care without any   additional cost to the patient. Um but   in terms of like how so you were just   wondering like how would the stat   >> so your current your current concier can   get you pay them a monthly fee which can   range from like you know 50 bucks more   likely   >> more likely more   >> three 400 you know whatever the number   is you know 500 in some cases you know   thousand bucks a month uh children slain   and private medical in the Bay Area it's   like 80 grand a year but   >> whatever   >> um you know you pay them but they're   responsible for looking after you all   the way through the come through the   system   >> but they're a lot of financial risk   >> for what you spend when you go in there.   But it turns out   >> 
the patients who do that spend tend to   be less expensive than the people who   are   >> ignored and pushed through the system or   worse are the financial benefit of the   big health system to get them into the

  expensive stuff.   >> Um so you know I see where you're going   going with that. It it just wor you know   I think my argument is that we should   have a national system where that's how   we pay we give a big number to primary   care dogs groups like yours can elongate   them   >> you incentive to figure out your   professional responsibilities as a group   of clinicians is to look after people to   you know holistically do all the stuff   you're talking about   >> all that kind of great stuff   >> I don't necessarily think we need to put   you at risk for the whole ball game that   seems to be the problem to me so   philosophic view may be different about   that Um   the answer is you know if you can get   enough uh payers to work with you and   actually put you at the right level risk   and not screw you over down the road   which has certainly happened in various   areas you know that that to me is an a   model that hopefully will work well.   >> So   >> okay my rant over. Uh   >> I think that the you k
now the

  interesting thing is how you're going to   build it out. You're going to have to   prove to the payers that yes you are.   Yeah,   >> you're a good deal for them.   >> You're going to have to explain to them.   They kind of know the small. They also   kind of don't have that.   >> Yeah.

 I mean, for some, they're more   familiar with this than others, for   sure. You know, some of the larger   payers are kind of like, oh, yeah,   absolutely. The second you open your   doors, we're ready to go. You know,   ready to flip to risk contract with you.   And others, um, you know, you do you   take more time and develop. But, you   know, to for us, that's kind of the fun   part in a way is to like show the proof   of the model.

 So like how are we   handling MLR? How are we handling RAPH?   How what's the patient experience and   what you know kind of trust and loyalty   and retention are we building with our   patient population? And we're so excited   to open the doors um to start showing   those proof points to be able to say   look we really believe in this.

 We think   it's going to work and we think it is   going to benefit. It's going to benefit   the patients, it's going to benefit the   providers and it's going to benefit the   takers. And so we really do like have um   an we have extremely realistic   optimistic you know hope um for how this   could kind of be a game changer for our   senior population.

  >> So last couple of questions on that one.   Uh is this Medicare advantage only?   There's the ACOs. There's the weird new   things that are coming out of CMS like   access and timber whatever whatever.   >> What are the mechanisms for patients?   >> Yes. So we will um it's it's Medicare   broadly.

 So it can be Medicare, it can   be Medicare Advantage, it can be AIO. Um   we will also um accept we will also look   for you know patients who are dual   applicable for Medicare and Medicaid um   as well as you know other other private   insurance but certainly Medicare any   type of Medicare is where we would   >> including fee for service as it is now.

  >> Yes. So fee for service as it is now a   lot of times you know with payers you   you start on their you start a payer   contract as fee for service and when you   get to a certain number of patients   they'll flip it to a risk contract. So,   you know,   >> within Medicare Advantage, but we'll   have straight Medicare fee for service   when you take.

  >> Oh, I see. Yes, we will. We will also   accept for service patients. It's it's   our preference is to be moving patients   over to Medicare, Medicare Advantage.   It's honestly it's often better benefits   for them. And so, um, you know, that's   that's kind of where we'll be going.   >> Well, see that that's interesting.

 It's   also to me I think that the Medicare   advantator of the Medicare advantage big   plans have not been as good as managing   care as they should be and the sort of   the smart people in the provider world   who understand how to do   >> capabitated comprehensive primary care   have probably not been there aren't   enough of them   readers who are really fascinated about   this can can go look at the stuff I've   written about human numbers about this   but we'll we'll go back on that okay uh   last things town square um   Sounds super exciting. You're just   getting going. Uh   >> how big are you? How much money you   raise? Who who was crazy enough to fund   this? Uh you know what what does the   organization look like now and what's it   going to look like in a year?   >> Yeah. So that that's a great question.   So right now we have a five person   leadership team and we have about 12 um   full-time part-time staff members. We um   are we have seed um we have initial like

  bootstrap funding of $10 million. We are   going to be doing a seed round of about   20 to 25 million um about a year from   now. And we've been here at Vive having   incredible investor meetings. We have   great investor meetings at health. We'll   be at health again in the fall. Um and   about a you know in the fall we plan to   open our first center and then we'll be   sort of on a cadence of opening after   that.

 So we'll be adding centralized   staff but we'll also be adding location   based staff you know who are working not   just in the health center but in the   community as well. So in the a year from   now we will be I think we will have   rapidly expanded. Um   >> give me give me a number of guests for   centers and patients. I know stuff but   >> well so my guess is I would say a year   from now what month are we in? We're in   February.

  >> February 2026.   >> Okay. So we will probably have three   centers open with um lease signed and   plans for the next 6 to 7. and ballpark   how many patients per center and how   many   >> well our centers are going to be built   to be able to have up to I'm looking   over at my colleague uh I think 4,000   patients the capacity of 4,000 patients   per center um so but it also will depend   on sort of the communities we're in   versus are we going to open more smaller   centers or fewer larger centers um but   we plan to be expanding into multiple   >> market what's the goal of doctor to   patient ratio I mean some concerns are   500   >> PCPs can be 2,000 you a number in there.   That's   >> I I don't have a number in there, but um   but I know that like, you know, as we're   sort of growing and expanding and   iterating, I think we're going to do a   lot of um almost like pilot testing to   see like what works best for the kinds   of relationships we're trying to build   between the PCP and the patien
t and the   care network.

  >> Right. A fascinating experiment which I   hope is a big success. I've been talking   Lauren. She is the uh VP of community   service and patient engagement. Have I   got that right? Yeah,   >> community engagement at Town Square   Health and we're working with that with   interest. All right, thanks for your   time.

  >> Thank you.



