Title: Lynn Rapsilber on Nurse Practitioners

URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=I00Vn-kor0w
Language: en
Duration: 00:34:22
Upload Date: Oct 9, 2025

Transcription:

[Music] Hi, Matthew Holt with the healthcare blogb spotlight and I'm here with Lynn Rapsila. Lynn is the CEO of NNP, which is I'll get this right, the National Nurse Practitioner Entrepreneur Network. And uh obviously uh Lynn, you're a nurse practitioner yourself. So, welcome to CHB. Why don't you tell me a little bit first off, what is the Before we dive into what the the network is and what you're doing specifically in sort of business? I know you're a nonprofit and you're working on that. um remind people what is a nurse

practitioner compared to a nurse and compared to a doctor just what's the basics? What is a nurse practitioner trained to do? How they qualified? How many years of training do they have? What do they work on? Just give me an idea. So, thank you for having me, Matthew. It's it's great to be here. Uh so, nurse practitioners are nurses who advance degrees, advanced studies.

So, we start out as nurses and then we go on to get an advanced degree as a nurse practitioner. Some of us are masters prepared and some of us are doctorally prepared. But we can assess, diagnose and treat uh common health care conditions. We have a scope of practice that we work in and we provide mostly uh primary care and psychmental health care but we're also uh diverging into specialty care because we're population focused. Uh we're not disease specific.

It allows us to be able to provide care along a continuum. Um, and there are a lot of us out there. Last year we were about 385,000 and this year we're now at 431,000 nurse practitioners. So, our workforce is growing exponentially. And in the light of provider shortages, it's it's good to know that there are a group of providers that are actually increasing their numbers to meet the demands that healthcare is going to require.

No, that's that's fascinating actually when you tell me that off offline that you know you're growing by you know more than 20% a year that's pretty pretty incredible and and and actually it's very interesting. So just to be really basic if you're a uh doctor right you go to medical school for four years and then you go through uh three years of residency usually um most general practitioners will come out of that compare and contrast the sort of time that you know between nursing degree and then extra training for MP and is there a residency associated what's what's the progression for an MP

so you have to be a nurse before you go into being a nurse practitioner so nursing can take different pathways ways. You can be a diploma nurse, which I was that route. Uh that really doesn't exist anymore.

You can be an associate degree RN, and then you get your bachelor's, that's four years, and then you get your master's, which is two years as a nurse practitioner. Uh some of the programs offer an accelerated track where you get a bachelor's degree in something and then you can become a nurse and then a nurse practitioner. Uh but the training is we always start as a nurse and we build upon that education as a nurse practitioner.

And what's the actual what's the actual nur? So now I've got my nursing degree. I'm a BA masters or a nurse. What's the next step in terms of nurse practitioner qualification and then going on from there? So nurse practitioners there's different tracks that you can take. So there's a uh family nurse practitioner track.

There's an adult ger nurse practitioner track track. There's an acute care NP track, an acute care adult gerot track. There's a psych women's health. Um so there's a lot of different pathways that a nurse can go into becoming a nurse practitioner. And it really is that population focused track that you take.

Um the doctorally prepared nurse practitioner. Some of us go back for an advanced degree like I did. And you can have that in nursing leadership where you learn about healthcare finance and um more of the leadership opportunities that are out there. Uh you can be a PhD and do research.

You can do an EDDD which puts you into the education. You can have a doctor of science. So there's different advanced degrees that you can have within nursing as well. But when we graduate from our NP training, we are qualified to go out and start practicing, assessing, diagnosing, and treating the conditions for which we're we're trained to do.

So, so if you were to do a family practice MP uh training, how how long is that period of extra training on top of the nursing? So, you have your RN, which is typically four years, and then you have two additional years in your master's training. Okay. So, it's another couple of years in general.

no residency associated with it as you said or you could go you could go that route but not usually. Is that the correct? So there are some residency programs that are out there. I know my colleague in Connecticut Margaret Flinger has one specific for community health centers and they're also other types but they're not required um to get into being a nurse practitioner.

Once you're graduated from that particular program you can sit for your boards and then you're certified to be able to practice. These residency programs are additional educational opportunities that present themselves after graduation. Okay. And then in terms of so now you're you're out, you train, you're an MP. Um I know many MPs are working in other clinics, you know, alongside doctors and nurses of course as well, but what's the limit legal limit on the scope of practice between a an NP and a foot physician? So I guess that what I need to say is that physicians and nurse practitioners are trained in two different models of

care delivery. So the medical model is disease focused. The nursing model is a holistic approach to health care where we look at you know all facets of that patient u in addition to the diseases or chronic conditions they may have. Um, so it's it's a different model, but the models do overlap in a lot of ways.

Like there are opportunities where physicians do more nursing stuff and then nurses do more physician. So I think uh that's where there's this overlap in in the cares that we do provide across the board. Nurse practitioners have a scope of practice and that scope of practice is dictated by the state. Uh so we have a um I think there's 29 states right now that offer full practice authority for nurse practitioners and there are some states that have a transition to practice where they may be limited as to number of hours and they have to be under a physician or a physician or nurse practitioner. Uh so for the most

part the practice authority is dictated by the state. There's regulatory requirements. Um but during COVID with the public health emergency, all those barriers were were gone because we needed nurse practitioners to be able to mobilize throughout the country to go where the needs were for care.

Um and it's interesting since the public health emergency ended that we're trying to put the genie back into the bottle when you know there right now there were no issues of you know is issues of concern when these NPs had full practice authority um during COVID. So um and we all need to have people practicing to the top of their education and training and unfortunately NPs don't have that luxury in a lot of states.

So when uh you know I think that's an interesting point but so let's think about what the the typical you mentioned 450,000 you know MPs so a lot of them and compared to you know around a million or so physicians total um what are the majority of them doing what kind of uh situation they're working you mentioned a number of states I know some of the big ones like California still have you mean they have to be uh you know under the under the guidance of a doctor although That's seems to be uh how that actually plays out seems to be quite uh quite loose in some cases

and uh in some cases as you mentioned it's not necess wasn't necessarily under co and and isn't necessarily in 29 states but what what are the typical roles that they're doing? What kind of functions are that is a typical nurse practitioner playing? So nurse practitioners are licensed independent providers and we can be found in hospital settings. We can be found in physician offices. We can have our own practices.

Um we can be we actually we go where the care is needed. So we'll go to patients homes, schools, daycarees. Um we had somebody who is providing primary care in a mega church. So we're not limited by geography and we're not limited by the patients location because we tend to go where the needs are. And a lot of our NPs are looking at what their communities need and trying to fulfill.

And nurses by general are problem solvers. So we'll see those needs and we'll try to go and do what we can to to solve some of those problems. And access to care is a huge one right now. Most of the NPs are trained in primary care. Um and then psych mental health is the other area where we see tremendous growth and a lot of the NP um PRA uh MPs that are uh psych mental health providers are really out there you know providing that service independent and they um they're really taking care of therapy and med management for a lot of patients. So you kind of get the best of two people in

one in one person when you have a psych because they can do the therapy and the med management. And are most of the whether it's psych or the family practice nurse practitioners are they mostly working in other medical groups? Are they just you know one one of one of the the big team? I mean I I know for sure that I'm one medical member and frequently they'll say you know you can come and see this nurse practitioner or there's a nurse practitioner staffing the uh the emergency line uh frequently. Um, I'm just trying to figure out how how, you know, if you were to take I know the

several hundred thousand there are, is that where you'll find the vast majority of them or the vast majority of them working, you know, in in community health centers. Um, and then we we'll get into it in a second about some of the level of independent nurse practitioners. I'm just trying to give a broad brush to listeners of where most where most MPs are.

So, I think where you'll find most MPs are in hospital-based settings and outpatient office settings, community health centers, you know, rural health clinics. Um, and what they'll do often times is when they reach a level of experience, they'll start to say, hm, you know, maybe I should be out on my, you know, I could do this on my own.

And they often, you know, look for an opportunity maybe to fulfill that kind of need. Um the other thing that's happening is that healthc care is changing and it's becoming more productivity based and you know seeing a lot of patients and when you think about a nurse practitioner and looking at a whole person we can't really do that in a 15minute visit.

So we tend to burn out quicker in that productivity model and a lot of NPs are saying you know I can't do this anymore. I need to step away and I really want to start a practice where I can give the kind of care that my brain is hardwired to deliver in that nursing model. Um, so what's your estimate now of So the number was 380,000 this year or whatever of MPs.

What's your estimate of how many of them are are running their own independent practice or an MPonly group? It's a fantastic question because we really don't know. These nurse practitioners are providing phenomenal care, but we just don't know where they're doing this. And many of them are doing it with their head down and they're just moving forward to provide that care to patients.

But we're finding that at least at the national nurse practitioner entrepreneur network that we really need to start to coalesce our NP entrepreneur colleagues so that we can actually start to create connective tissue work together and support each other uh and really work together because an N of one with 500 patients really isn't going to have a lot of you know bargaining power or leverage where if we have ends of a thousand with hundreds of thousands of patients lives now we're talking now we can actually start to look at how can we as NP

practice owners how are we making a difference how are we saving money how are we keeping people out of the hospital ER and urgent care so a couple of things worth worth noting right which are one is that there are a lot of places in America both in urban but also heavily in rural areas where there is a just there isn't any primary care and we're short of it and and you know this this obviously is a big potential solution we've been you know um the second is that uh MPs actually get paid less I'm get paid less by Medicare, right, than the same for doing

the same thing essentially. Um, for the fee schedule out, is it 20% difference? It's a it's it so physicians get 100%, we get 85%. Okay. So, it's a it's 15% 15% less. 15% less. I can never do the math. Is it 15% less and then you have to get paid 20% more to make it up or whatever. Well, that's that's just it.

I mean we're already starting at a budget deficit once we open up our practices. So you know again it becomes more challenging for us to try to be sustainable when but but have you found that for independent MPs running a practice like primary practice that is it a sustainable business? I understand it can absolutely be and I think one of the things that we're trying to stress is that Medicare, Medicaid and the rural populations uninsured those are the folks that really need care. Sure. and we're poised to provide that care, but we also realize that that is

not going to pay the bills. So, what we really need to do is look at how can we supplement by providing VA disability um ratings for the veterans because that is a backlog. These veterans have been waiting, you know, to get their disability ratings for years.

So, that is an opportunity that we can help fulfill a need with a population that needs that. Uh weight management is another area and it's not just prescribing the GLP1s and you know take the shot and you'll be great. It really is looking to lifestyle change and how you can do that with a patient. There's opportunities to do um you know aesthetics. There's opportunities to do uh employment physicals, DOT physicals.

The other thing that we do too is if we're doing a visit and we're seeing a patient for 30 minutes or an hour, there are other services that we can provide to that patient during that visit that are add-on services that actually will help um increase the reimbursement that an MP might um be able to ascertain uh just by spending that extra time with the patient. Yeah.

And and I guess this this leads to the question of uh and I'll get on to what you're particularly doing in a second, but there's obviously there's a couple of movements going on in primary care, right? There's one is building out and it's usually hospital or private equity center building out urgent care centers. Um there are a few bigger primary care groups. Uh I'm thinking about the Chen Meds, the Oak Streets who've been who've been aiming at Medicare Advantage who've been building big teams.

I put one medical in that bucket although it's a slightly different thing. And then there's this emergence of direct primary care which is basically c it's membership cash pay you know from uh from individuals. Have you seen I mean it sounds a lot of that has the 30 to 60 minute appointments and smaller panels.

Have you seen any MPs go into that model? Is there a sort of direct primary care model for for MPs to charge rather than you know just doctors? Absolutely. Direct primary care is a model. Functional medicine is another area where NPS are really gravitating to a lot. Um because we want to look at all different opportunities to provide care to our patients.

You know, we're not running to provide us prescription when somebody walks through the door. We're going to assess them and see, you know, what's your diet like and are you exercising and what's your stress level and really, you know, look at that whole person and really tailor a treatment plan that's going to work for them as an individual. And that does take time to do that. Uh so but there are opportunities for NPs as well.

Some of our NPs are opening their own urgent center clinics. Um one area that I find that MPs are gravitating to is called transitional care management. So they will see those patients that are being discharged from the hospital within 7 to 14 days so that they can help reduce the hospital readmission rates.

Uh and that's a big that's a big plus for a a hospital rural hospital community to make sure that those patients don't get readmitted. Um so MPs are instrumental in starting a practice along that lines as well. Homebased primary care is huge. A lot of our NPs go to the patients home and do an assessment there. Uh and it's great for somebody who can't get out of the house.

If you're overweight um and it's difficult to get out of the house, those are the right patients. um if somebody has um mental illness or Alzheimer's where taking them out of their environment is going to stress them out, it's great to have somebody be able to come to their home and see them.

So lot of opportunity then for uh nurse practitioners. Are there pe and before I'll ask about what you're doing but are there people building uh sort of NP groups uh in terms of you know where where a lot of them are coing together in an area similar to a typical medical group or are most NPs who work in a group working in a more traditional medical group with doctors and and uh others? So a lot of NPs are breaking away from the the medical group practices and things like that to start their I'm wondering so they going to groups of with other MPs or is it almost all independent? Well, what our hope is is that if we can

connect a primary care nurse practitioner with a psych mental health practitioner in a community to share resources that's going to enhance the care that that community is going to have. Um, so that's kind of our goal with our our directory is really to link and coalesce these NP practices from across the country so that we can find out where these uh clinicians are located.

Patients can find them because they're always looking for NPs and don't know where actually to go to find them. And then they're looking for nurse practitioners to collaborate with each each other to provide referral sources or to share resources and then students to find preceptors because we're finding a lot of NPs that are students want to go into a practice that's led by a nurse practitioner. Um so our directory actually is set up to do all that.

So tell me a bit so let's let's dive in. Tell me a bit more about what the uh the network as a as a as a reminder it's the national nurse practitioner entrepreneur entrepreneur network. Um a bit of a mouthful. NPN uh an NPN. Um some of that is a for-profit business you run, some of that is a nonprofit with the directory. Correct.

Go down the list of what do you provide? What what services are you doing? Sure. So our vision really is to elevate the nursing model to transform healthcare delivery by creating financially viable and sustainable community of NP entrepreneurs and our focus really is we started in 2017. Uh we're over 300 members and we're continuing to grow.

We provide a business basics accelerator course because one thing we do not get nor do PAs or physicians is business education. Sure. Um, so in order to be successful, you have to know that foundational and have that mindset to be an entrepreneur. So since we've started our business basics course, we've launched about 70 NPowned practices.

We've hosted over seven uh national conferences. We took on our first state affiliate in Florida recently. Um, we have ongoing meetings for members relating to primary care and then also psych mental health. and we're advocates for the MP entrepreneurs as u policy and advocacy and we also partner with entities that really understand what nurse practitioners are in the nursing model of care.

So that's our for-profit arm and then we started our not forprofit which is our destination NP. It's our 501c3 and that directory really um serves several purposes. As I said before, patients can find nurse practitioners. uh nurse practitioners can find each other for collaboration for re referrals and for support and resources and then um students can find preceptors and the once the nurse practitioner is on the network and all they need is their NPI number to register and they get into the listing um the goal is to try to aggregate as many folks on the platform as we can uh and then actually as the as

the platform grows we'll be able to offer much more in the way of opportunity unities for and pen members to participate uh whether it's uh being expert panel uh opportunities because I'm getting uh every day I'm getting calls from people who say I want to work with your group I have this software or this app can I test it on your NPs um I'm a researcher I need access to NP practice owners so there's a lot of opportunities for folks when they're on this system but the biggest thing is creating that community of NP so that we can start to aggregate and really be able to speak with one voice uh for the

MP entrepreneurs. That's the really key thing because right now everybody's doing their little thing in isolation but once we you know coales together that's going to give us a lot more leverage I think overall um and then we can start looking at what are the outcomes that R&Ps are providing there's data out there researchers are looking at that but if we had a larger database that would actually you know help in that regard as well so there's a lot you can do on the nonprofit side just getting back to the the for-profit side again you're

providing education you're providing a sort of setup system for for MPs to go to business and some some uh some other consulting around that. Um what what if I'm a if I'm a uh if I'm a nurse practitioner working in a medical group and I say I want to set up my own business and you know and I come to you and say Lynn can you help me? What is it what does it cost me to sort of go through your system and then what do you think it cost me to get into business as a whole? Sure. Yeah. So our membership rate is is very reasonable. It's $198 for the year and

with that you get one hour free consulting to meet with one of the founders and what we can do is help. A lot of people have these great ideas but they're they're not being able to hone it down to one thing that they could start and do.

Um or they want to start right away and get a brick and mortar and do all this and it's like well wait a minute you know that costs money and you know that's not easily accessible to us. We can't just go into a bank and say, "Hey, I want $250,000 to start a practice." They're going to go hit the road. Um, but what we can do is talk to them about maybe start with teleaalth or start with a homebased uh practice and then build from that.

Uh, we help them uh with marketing. We have partnerships with marketing, credentiing, billing, EHR, um, and a lot of the support network. Um, we're building a lot more of the infrastructure to help NPs um, to be sustainable. Well, we do an office hours. It's the third uh Tuesday of every month where we highlight a hot topic and if you're an NMP member, you get a free C for everyone that you attend.

They're all recorded and we have about four years worth of content. That's amazing. Uh everything that you can think of regarding practice ownership. The other area that we partner with is the nurse attorneys association because with practice ownership comes a lot of legal things, right? So, you know, whether you're buying a practice, selling a practice, you know, maybe uh there's a complaint filed, you know, we'll now have access to nurse attorneys that can help our our folks um you know, be compliant and stay out of that that legal area. We don't

really want to go down that rabbit hole if we can avoid it. Um so, that's those are some of the benefits that we offer our members. Um in addition, things like the physician fee schedule is out now. So I because my area of expertise is coding, billing and documentation, I review the changes.

I put out a notice to our NPs with a nice little letter that they can send in to um comment on and add in their own personal stories as well. Um so we're trying in the advocacy of policy arm as well. And we also have a lot of recorded content uh from webinars regarding value based care um when the government knocks coding and billing both for primary care and mental health. Uh so there's a lot and then we're constantly building upon that.

Um our business basics accelerator course we're actually looking to partner with the university to create that second level. So when that NP starts and they get into year two or three and they want to grow you know that comes with other challenges. is, you know, how do you find right employees and how do you, you know, grow your business? So, we're going to be working with uh a school of business to create that content.

Um, so I mean, that's love. We just keep moving forward. You know, it's amazing. And it's so funny because when we think that, you know, we're we're concerned that we'll ever be able to get forward, you know, we always say the universe provides for us and it always does and it always has.

And I think because we're, you know, committed to NPs and NP entrepreneurs, I think that's where, you know, we want to be the trust agent for the NPs that they can feel comfortable that we're a safe space. We also have a discussion board internally, too, where our members can communicate with one another.

Um, I troll Facebook a lot and you know, I'm always interjecting you, you know, join our network. So, let let me let me ask you some of the mechanics. If I'm uh if I'm sitting as an MP and I'm working for a medical group or whatever and I'm making, you know, X actually I don't know what X is, but I'd be interested to know what you think on average they're making.

How much is it going to cost me to go into business myself? I can't buy your stuff, but there's obly a bunch of other expenses. And what what would I what's average reasonable amount I expect to be able to make as a seller practitioner instead? Can you give me a sort of sense of what the business opportunity there is for for them? Yeah.

So again, it really depends on where somebody's at. Sure. It's going to be different by by community and average and all the rest of it, but to give me a sort of sense about roughly what we're talking about here, but to do a teleaalth or a homebased primary care, you could probably do that for $5,000.

So not too much to set up and and then so it is right and then roughly what are they making roughly? What's the range of what they make an NP makes in a practice working with somebody else? And then roughly what you expect them to make working with themselves. So again, if you are in a medical practice, you're going to make probably, you know, anywhere from 125 to 150,000 somewhere in that regard.

When you're and and when you're in your own business, you know, you'll make that money. You'll keep all that because when you're in a practice, they're going to skim off all the overhead costs and things like that where that's going to go in your pocket.

And then we try to educate them about being part of the quality payment programs where they can get bonus money for the quality care that they provide. So we really try to work with them to maximize the the coding and billing side of things and to look at other opportunities like these uh quality measures where they can actually enhance.

We're also looking at um being able to be part of reach acos and some of the other you know CMMI innovation models that look for nurse practitioners uh to maintain elderly um or uh high-risisk patient care. That's that's been very popular. Um, I would love to see once we get this this database up to be able to create a pilot project for CMMI where it we can look at our nurse practitioners and put them into a different type of acco model and and see what they can do.

Yeah. And I I would also think that, you know, given the advantages in AI, the ability of of of a MP to extend and for that matter for a doctor to extend their practice do a lot more from a sort of solo or very small group level. you know, we're going to see a lot more models coming up coming up like that.

Um, so just to just to end, so as you said, we're creating a lot of MPs. Um, all as we've discussed in different environments and many different places, but all this comes down to the fact that we do lousy primary care in America. We don't do good holistic care.

What's your what's your kind of vision for pushing this forward, you know, for both what you're doing and and the general movement of for MPs and primary and improving primary care. What's your vision this looks like in 10 years time? Give me a sense for what you think is going to Well, yeah, that's a great question. As a matter of fact, it came up in a in a um program that I was sitting on where they were talking about redefining primary care.

And what I can foresee is right now we're in an illness care model that is really structured more and people enter the system when they have a disease. Um and what we really need to do and that's what value-based care is based upon is how can we move that care from the hospital side and illness care to wellness care where we're looking at health promotion, disease prevention and really empowering the patients to take some charge and ownership of their care.

And the only way to do that is not the transaction of the medical model, but the longitudinal of that patient relationship with that nurse practitioner. And there are a lot of great physicians too, by the way, who who are doing this kind of care. But it's really getting that longitudinal and that relationship um and partnership with the patient that's going to pay the dividends in the long run. And that model has to stand up.

And I think that, you know, right now we're stuck in this medical model. it's too expensive and it's not going to provide the outcomes that we need. We need to let the nursing model and that value based care model let that try and see how much of a difference we could potentially make if we look at shifting the conversation from illness care to wellness care and health promotion disease prevention.

Yeah, I've I mean you know I've written about bit about this and can we get primary care to everybody? could we get, you know, essentially the the the level of direct medical care where people are on a 500 pound sort of a 2,000 panel and where people get access to primary care and you know how much difference that would make downstream in terms of lower resource utilization and better care and better preventative care and you you've got to imagine that you know the people who are primary care doctors and current MPs and as you mentioned behavioral health MPs as well because that's a big part of this you know there has to be a solution for that kind for those

hundreds of thousands of of clinicians. Can we not create a way that we because we know the uh the intensive sort of medical model and frankly the barization over the last couple of decades where hospitals have bought up medical groups and primary care groups just to ensure they get a flow of patients into their expensive stuff inside the hospital, the surgery and you know the the the infusion, the chemo care and all that kind of stuff.

And it seems to me that, you know, that that we have a great opportunity with the the growth of MPs um uh you know to to kind of reverse this primary care collapse or what whatever you want to call it and yeah collapse in budget and and you're right that you know maybe the reach acos are a slight move towards that and some others but I think people are are looking at this I mean I think right now the uh the set of conferences going on in in in Denver where talking about many of these same things and there is a general understanding the way we've done primary care isn't working and I think what you're you know you're

doing and what your organization is doing is sort of being one of the points of light to see you know how how are the ways we can change that so uh good good luck in what you're doing that's always an uphill battle starting a relatively small organization and uh and getting getting awareness about it but I think you're doing you know you're doing you're doing good work out there so thanks Well, we're firm believers that we can change health care from the ground up because top down doesn't work.

Um, and so, you know, meeting patients where they are, solving problems in the communities. Um, you know, that's where I think we'll see the best the patients to take some ownership of their own care and their decisions because right now that's not really what's happening. In theory, that's what, you know, patient centered care is supposed to be like, but it isn't.

Um, and I think if we can empower those patients to partner with whatever provider they have, whether it's a nurse practitioner, PA, physician, you know, that in and of itself is going to change health care as well. Um, and who knows, you know, what's going to happen in the next year.

I we're seeing a lot of change right now and a lot of, you know, uh, tiptoeing to see where everything's going to lay out. But I really believe that if nurse practitioners are meeting needs in the community and providing that care, uh, patients are going to know that that's going to be helpful and the insurers are going to latch on to this because once they figure out that we're keeping people out of the ER, urgent care and hospitals, why wouldn't you want to have a whole panel of nurse practitioners providing that care? I hope so.

I'm not I'm not all sure that leaving our safe in the American insurance companies is the best way to go, but we'll see. True. True. But I but I I certainly like the vision. I've been speaking with Lin Raph Lin Rap Silva. She is the CEO of the NNPN, a leader in helping nurse practitioners uh develop.

And as we've been discussing the last uh 30 minutes or so, real interesting time in the in the future of uh primary care based on what nurse practitioners are going to do. Thanks for your time, Lyn. Thank you. Appreciate your your time as well.
