Title: Mario Danek, QNovia
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lCNsEW_i4Do
Language: en
Duration: 12:09
Upload Date: Mar 24, 2026

Transcription:

Matthew, another quick bite from THCB   here at Vive. I'm with Mario Danick. He   is the CEO and founder of Kunovia, which   is doing something complicated in terms   of trying to change behavior. Uh you're   building a platform and the first and   you've been doing this what since 2018.   The first instance is in smoking   sensation.

 So Mario tell us what is the   whole solution that you're bringing.   >> Okay. So two components um I'll talk   about the first one. First one is the   combination drug device product. So I   want you to picture a truly malleable   nicotine replacement therapy that   >> like a vape or something similar   >> in terms of shape and size.

 It looks   very similar to that but it doesn't   function like one and all. Right. So   it's actually uh based off of predicate   nebulizing technology. The medical   industry knows these as vibrating mesh   nebulizers.   >> Okay.   >> Um and we have right now 13 granted use   of PTO patents and we've got about 44   applications circulating worldwide.

 Um   with more uh I think being granted soon.   So there's a lot of novelty behind the   technology. Um, but it's basically in   essence a the most ultra portable   vibrating mesh nebulizer that also   requires no cleaning. has a cartridge   product interface if you will that   contains um the air sizing elements as   well as this little nebulous slide in   contains a drug product and then you pop   that into the device and it's either   button or breath activate depending on   the regulatory geography cuz there are   some differences between different   health authorities that might prefer a   button activation a breath activation   device can do the work. Um, what makes   it unique, what we believe will be   absolute breakthrough therapy is the   fact that it replicates the PK curve   that is actually necessary for smokers   to quit smoking.   >> Sorry, what's the PK curve?   >> So, the PK curve, so what a P what is a   PK curve?   >> Yes, most people won't know that. I   promise you.   >> Sorry. Yeah, the 
pharmaccoinetics

  uh of how how quickly it takes for your   body to absorb and understand nicotines   in your system.   >> Right. Okay. And so uh we actually just   completed our US phase 1 trial. We   received the first ever uh   investigational new drug clearance by   FDA for an inhale nicotine replacement   therapy uh in September uh of 2024   and the data just came out and basically   what we we were show and demonstrate is   that our PK we can uh get a a max   saturation max within 10 inhalations   uh in roughly 7 minutes as opposed to   cigarette which is 6 minutes. When you   compare that to all other predicate or   legacy NRTs, these are languishing in   the 30 to 60 minutes. And in that window   is when people often realize and that's   where your withdrawal symptoms kick in.   You know, you have your morning coffee,   it's a ritual. You tend to have your   cigarette with that. As you try to quit   and we yourself off that behavior, if   the gum, the patches, etc. actually kick   in. It's really, really hard to wean

  yourself off of that. And so our thesis   is that a pharmacocinetic profile that   replicates   uh the the PK as closely as possible to   the cigarette is actually way for you to   gradually and titrate on down   >> titrate down.   >> So that makes a lot of sense. Uh   Chinoia, you're making the device the   vape bite device.

 Are you making the   drug as well or is that somebody else's   drug?   >> No, we we developed the drug and the   device and the the the API the active   forms of ingredient uh stems out of a   lab that we work with Alter Sciences out   of Philadelphia actually. So we're very   much US based.   >> Fantastic.

 So uh the one other thing you   mentioned is that I know it's not as far   along in the with the uh with the FDA   and also in production but but in the uh   clinical trial piece but uh you want to   add some AI and some coaching yes as   well. So can you say a bit about that?   >> Sure. Um   >> well listen I think it goes back to   meeting the smokers where they are.

 So   in today's day and age 60% of all US   smokers and this is actually a figure   that's broadly the same globally. So I'm   talking about US figures from a US FDA   perspective at this point suffer from a   co-ra mental health disorders and are on   the lower socioeconomic spectrum. And so   in my mind you know what I think will   drive exponential adherence compliance   rates and this is not just having a   therapy but it's also democratizing   access to a 24/7 behavioral health coach   or therapist. And so that's where the AI   element kicks in. So you can have you   our resp   where you receive your therapy and then   via Bluetooth communicates directly to a   proprietary app that has an AI based   interface that communicates to you in   very humanistic terms that tells you   about your behavior, your your puff   topography, your daily use, can counsel   you and then provide you uh the the

  necessary tools on the behavioral health   side as well. So again, I'm going back   to my initial point of like I'm trying   to imagine a single mother, for   instance, that has to work two jobs.   She's lucky enough to have the proper   healthcare. She certainly doesn't even   have the time to source out to see a mar   specialist.

 So to us the the AI element   of this behavioral health tool really   brings the the the strength of the   synergistic prowess of this of this of   this therapy full circle where you can   marry the pharm uh uh therapy alongside   with the with the AI tool   >> to create a realistic   >> it sounds obvious right because you know   coaching motivation behavior changes is   mental but also it's also physical with   the with with the drug.

 So the uh the   medication itself that's part of it is   that essentially a a a non-addictive   nicoline substitute. What's going on   with the drug?   >> So the energy the the act the active is   nicotine.   >> Okay.   >> So so so think of it as like inhaled   liquor for instance. Right. So so it it   is nicotine and then you are going   through a titration.

  >> So eventually you stop using it and   roughly how long is that process? So,   uh, since the Affordable Care Act, uh,   you're the average US, uh, citizen is   afforded two 12 week cycles of, uh,   fully covered sessation. Um, so that   means, you know, the 24 weeks of of   coverage per year. Um, and then it's   actually designed to to work in one   single 12week step down program.

 So, you   could basically do it twice per year.   >> I see. And then give me a sense from I   mean from the early data you have from   the phase one trial how effective has   this been in terms of people quitting?   >> Extremely. So we we were able to hit uh   to hit 25 uh human subjects uh and did a   you know a double blind crossover study   and we're able to prove that we simply   just with 10 inhalations of our product   compared to 10 inhalations of a   cigarette compared to 10 inhalations of   a legacy product called the N control   inhaler which interestingly enough is   actually not an inhaler. It's a buckle   delivery device. Um, but you you inhale   by way of using air pathways to bring it   into your mouth. So, you're basically   depositing nicotine buckly and   transmucosally, which is why it's such a   slow onset. Um, and we and we we were   able to prove that uh our product hit a

  uh a T-max in 7 minutes as opposed to a   cigarette which is 6 minutes. These   legacy products that we we've all seen,   you know, over the counter for decades   um language between 30 and 60 minutes   depending on dosage and and what type of   legacy   >> the mechanism is now done. Do you have   any data yet for efficacy? Was that too   early to say? to really say at this   stage, but we are going for a a pivotal   trial along with the phicodnamic study   in the UK and we're initiating that in   summer of 26 of this year and hope to   complete that uh with final readouts by   Q1 of 2027. So then we'll have studies.   >> All right, good good to see. So tell me   a bit about the company. Um when did you   start it? How much money have you   raised? How long you've been how uh how   many people do you have? give me a sort   of sense of the scope so far and then on   the journey towards commercialization   because these drugs and uh you know   medic medication therapies take a long   time to get onto the mark

et.   >> Yes, they do. I started the company in

  2018 got the first um venture capital   institutional investment in 2019. We   have raised $50 million to date. We are   pursuing a dualprong uh regulatory   pathway approach u in the UK uh as well   as here with the US FDA. Uh we are   currently exploring multiple potential   partnerships XUS can't get into details   with those because we're pretty down the   wire.

 I can say that we've been in deep   deep digence with uh three large players   in the space uh since June of 2025. So,   um, expecting some announcements   hopefully with Q2 and and that would be   an outlicicensed commercialization play   with, uh, one of those three.   >> So, do you expect that in, you know, how   give me a number of years? When is this   like to be on the market and when when   do you expect to see, you know, people   with smokers now taking being able to   take advantage of this to to hopefully   quit? Because I mean if I think of the   data, you know, we did a good job of   getting smoking to go from 60% to like   was it 15 or 20% in the US, but it's   really got stuck there since we had that   that last chunk. And   >> we still have, you know, think   our indirect direct cost burden annually   is still $600 billion a year. So 6   trillion in the next decade. 500,000   Americans still die annually as a result   of this. So uh again, it's not really   been solved for. It's still very muc
h an

  endemic problem. Uh and part of the   problem is that there has been no   innovation in the space. We're the first   innovative NRT with FDA at a clinical   stage in over 20 years. We're a nuclear   team of six people and like 40 45   consultants and that's kind of the   problem in itself. But um pharma hasn't   really been incentivized and we're here   to we're here to change that.

 Um in   terms of a regulatory rollout, you know,   it's bifoccated like I had mentioned to   you earlier.   Looks like there's going to be a   partnership over Atlas technology to a   global player for XUS in the US. We very   much want to develop a tele health   platform uh and roll out the product   along with tellahalth platform.

 Um   although we would be prescription kind   of similar in a to a DTOC environment   from a perception perspective how we   perceive his and hers or other row other   large health platforms today. Uh and   then it would be packaged with our   behavioral health care as well. And you   have a guess on a date for when that   might be happening.

 I don't know any   company   all of it. Uh I can walk you through   some of that. So I think UK we are   looking at submitting the final uh   marketing authorization in in Q1 of   2027. Okay. So uh then it's just a   matter of the auditing process with MH   which could take anywhere between 6   months to 18 months. Uh we're hoping   given the UK's focus on uh Britain   smokefree 2030, UK smokefree 2030, we're   hoping it's going to slide   >> around that date rather than Yeah,   exactly.

  >> Uh US uh FDA's a lot of changes   happening. Um   >> we've noticed   >> so   >> probably topic for another conversation.   Uh so you know we're engaging um   there are you know   there's some directional input that we   could be getting to market sooner than   than than later. But   >> I'm going to say 2030 for both of them.

  But you know it's it's it's a it's a   long journey to get to the market but   obviously something that can have a huge   impact.   >> I think that's that's 2030 is a is is a   good guess that I'm going to have to   sign up on. All right. Aggressive or   not.   >> Fantastic. I see with Mario Denn. He's   the CEO of Kunobia.

 Um, looking forward   to seeing how this plays out. Good luck.




