Title: Matthew tries Reperio's at home health screening
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8XD8Wzfiq-c
Language: en
Duration: 39:52
Upload Date: Jul 9, 2025

Transcription:

Okay, so it's Matthew Hul with the healthcare blog and about a week ago I took part in one of these uh new use your to use your tools and test yourself at home programs and completely screwed it up. So, the program was from a company called Repirio, and they uh I had a debrief with them. Um, and I have a lot of problems uh figuring out how to do the blood testing part of this. Um, and so the Rapio folks very nicely um said, "Why don't you have another go?" So, here I am. And here is the Reperio

box. And we're going to do a little bit of unboxing and see how it goes. again. All right, I'll attempt to film this using my webcam. And this may be too close. So, up. Um, and I'm going to start and stop. Here's the box. I'm going to unbox it and come back when the box is done. Okay. So, the way this works is that Rapirio sends you this very nice uh hexagonal box. You unbox it and then uh you go from there. So, I'll uh take all the stuff out and then show you what's

in it. Okay. They clearly noticed I screwed up because the first thing I see is a card saying hello. Let's try this again. And uh I need to get the blood flowing and wash my hands and take my time. All this good stuff. And then I have to start on the app. So, uh, anyway, there's the checklist. Uh, you send this thing back. So, that's the label. They send it send it back and stick that back in the box. And then you're supposed to put everything on this mat. So, I'm going to um tell you to open the scan

and and put it on the mat. I'm actually going to put the mat where the box is now because I don't have enough room otherwise. Um so uh the bottom line is that um it's a onetime test thing. Um and we'll see what happens uh after one time test. First thing in the box is a scale which I guess I'm going to stand on at some point and see how fat I am. And then inside the box, so it has a little bit of commotion travel is uh this thing is a tape measure which you get to tape around your belly. There's a

blood pressure cuff um which uh branding on it. It's an old one. And inside the blood pressure cuff, this is used for the for the blood test part. And then this is the main part which is all the stuff you need for blood testing and this cardio plus unit. Um, and that's the thing I screwed up last time. So, we'll see how I do uh if I get it any better this time. Okay, so I'm in the app now and uh my recollection from last time is they give you a rather lengthy overview which I must admit I thought was a bit dull, but

uh let's see how much of it I prepared to inflict on you poor readers. And there's a whole bunch of stuff wants to set me up. So, uh, oh man, I don't know what this part is. It's got it's got to play me something maybe. Oh, I think my volume's off. Take your time and listen carefully. After you've completed the screening, you'll be able to view your results. All right, bunch of stuff to continue through. It's going to play me a video. Hi, we're so glad you're here. You're

about to begin. I'm not going to put this whole video on you. We're the industry's only at home biometric health screening option that provides instant results upon completion. We also work with a nationwide customers and we're so glad you're cut out. Today, we're going to be reviewing a couple of recommendations we have to ensure a successful screening experience. Give yourself plenty of time to complete the screening, though most people finish in about 30 minutes or so.

Our cure team is available should any potential issues arise. To get a hold of them, simply log into the Rapio app, click the chat bubble, or you can send them an email. Let's go ahead and dive in. Are you ready to unbox your kit? We're excited for you. I don't know how you would have got to this part if you haven't already unboxed your kit. Don't throw away this cardboard box quite yet. You'll need it to return the kit back to the Reparium warehouses. Next, we're opening up the kit and

showing you a couple of items. But remember, our app is designed to take you through step by step. So, no need to take anything out yet. So, we're going to go ahead and remove the lid. And the first thing that you're going to see is the return envelope. Save this for that return that we talked about. Next is your workspace mat. You're going to be using this to set up all of your supplies for your blood panel portion of your screening. Friendly screening note. Please be sure to throw this away at the

end of your screening once it's been already this video, but I can't get past it. So, we have a QR code here that you can scan. Apparently, I didn't pay enough attention last time. Great job. You're a step ahead. We do want to acknowledge there is a lancet and there is a finger poke to activate your blood panel. We know, we know this isn't the most fun part of your screening, but with these tips and tricks, we're confident you'll be successful. First of all, ask a friend

or a family member if that feels helpful for this portion of the screening. Next, we're going to be talking about preparing. I should have done that last time. Please be sure to move your body before you do your blood panel. This is going to help to increase blood flow and circulation to your fingertips. With that in mind, you're spending time rubbing your hands under the warm water. This is not only to wash them and remove that motion and residue. It's also to increase that blood flow and

circulation. Lastly, please be sure to stay hydrated and drink plenty of water before your screening. Next, we're going to go ahead and have you pick up the blood. And we want to spend some extra time and care and installing the test strips into your blood sensor. You'll want to make sure they're fully pushed back so that way they're seated in their slot. Also, please be sure to bandage your finger after your blood panel before you handle any of our medical grade lab devices. So, last time I screwed up on the blood

sensor here. The screen results will be immediately once the screening is complete. You'll have the option to download your results right from the home screen which basically broke the sensor process of the kit. We know it's a bummer the Repario kit isn't yours to keep. So, please be sure to handle it here. So, we're going to go ahead and show you that envelope from earlier labeled return materials and we're going to take out the contents and take you through the process of what it looks

like to return to a perio kit. The shipping label is going to go right at the side of the box. You're going to get the two pieces. I can't believe anybody cares about this part. So, let's pause the recording. Okay, so aringleeve shirt. We'll be measuring your weight. So, you'll also want to change out of any heavy layers such as jeans. And then they're going to be also asking about two of your tests will require you to be seated in front of a small work area at a table or desk that is not in direct

sunlight. You will need an area with a tile, wood, or other non-carpeted floor to use the scale as well. Lastly, you will need access to a sink with warm water and a fresh towel or paper towel during the screening. The lipid and glucose testing does require a finger prick and some blood collection. If you have some discomfort around blood or blood test, consider asking a friend or family member to help you with this portion of the screening. Let's get started. If you haven't opened your kit

yet, remove the lid and the workspace mat. Place your workspace mat on the desk or table in front of you to create a work area. Let's take that out. Then remove the scale and place it aside for later. I've already moved the scale. I've got the blood pressure kit going to shove there. And the mat back on there. Shove it on there. Test kit. Oops. and more the various parts of the thing. They're all labeled pretty well. So that's the see if that is the pets. That's the glucose.

That's the lid pop. And then there is a thing in the box you have to later on. I know you have to press this to make it all work and it connects to the app. All right, let's keep going. Press the button in the center of your kit to power on your kit. You'll know the kit is turned on when a light appears. Okay, I'm pressing and the light appears off again. Great. Your kit is ready to go. H. Well, hopefully that's still working. The light went on and went and off. I touched it again. Now the light is on

full time. I can't see that, but it's it's purpleish. The first test you'll be taking is your blood pressure. You will need to place the blood pressure sensor directly on the skin of one arm, just above your elbow. If you're not wearing a short sleeve shirt, this is a great time to change into one. So, it's an on blood pressure cuff. Inside the cuff, you'll find a purple stand and glucose portion of your screening. Please place it aside for now. So, my recollection is it last time

didn't tell me a lot. You should be sitting comfortably in a chair at a desk or table with your workspace in front of you or next to you. Ensure that you're close enough to be able to rest your arm on the table. Sit with your back against the chair, your legs uncrossed, and your feet flat on the ground. Quite complex instructions, but I have a chair. Remove the clear protective film from the face of the blood pressure cuff sensor. Last time I put this on, unwrap the strap on the sensor and slide

the sensor up your arm with the buttons facing inward. The sensor should be above your elbow at heart level. Tighten the strap of the sensor so it's snug against your arm with the white sensor and buttons facing up and towards you. So, it says the white sensor and buttons should be up and towards me. And uh I don't know. I have it on now. Since I have it on, I hope I've got the right way around. I'm lost. I'm pretty sure it was on the wrong way around, but I got the start stop button here. Um I have to relax my

body, blah blah bl your back is relaxed and resting against the back of the chair. Blood pressure can be quite dynamic. So, we'll be measuring your blood pressure one more time over the course of your screening and we will only use the best result. And I must asking you to fully relax and take a few deep breaths. I've had a lot of Oh my god, it's going to go through the whole thing. Breathe deeply. Um I won't follow exactly for a count of seven, but um I have had various exhale through your mouth to a count of

eight. Now repeat this two more times. The stress of having to remember how to do this is going to bump me up. Um I would say that I have had blood pressure testing. Uh I did it at a sort of health fair thing. Well, a booth at a health fair put up by Sarah Health and I was in very good shape. I was like 117 over over 79. Then I did it at my doctors about a week later. start stop button on the sensor and I think the sensor cuff tighten 37 or 142 over 85 and remember and last time we did on this one it did work I think I was

sensor loosens fully the test is completed and you strap remove the sensor and place it aside for later 127 over 83 or something so see what happens when I actually do this I won't put you through the whole process [Music] [Music] So, I was putting all the way through that. Okay. So, here we go. Um, great. We've saved your results. Remove the blood pressure cuff from your arm and set it aside for later. 132. So, we'll measure your blood pressure and we'll use the best results. So I

think what that all basically says is that um actually you know that's a little high on the on the lower number. All right. How to do it with one hand but it's off now. So next it is going to have me go over and do uh you see my desk is a bit of a mess. Those you who going to have me get my body mass index and I suspect the way it does that is it both weighs me and it's going to make me do the thing with the Great job completing your first test. Now let's take your weight. Place the

scale on a hard surface such as wood or tile flooring. Do not place the scale on carpet. Any wobbly or uneven surface can result in it's going to be a long lecture and I think I'm going to take this out to my bathroom. Um, if you're wearing shoes like jeans, you should temporarily remove them in order to get the most accurate result. Last time I did it, step onto the scale and remain still with your weight evenly balanced between both feet. This did not agree with my wing scale. Wait until the number

you can now step off the scale. Well, go do it. Okay. So last time the uh Rapirio scale did not agree with my winning scale. This time they do agree with each other. So maybe the previous one was calibrated wrongly. Um sadly last time it thought I was about 10 pounds lighter than I actually am. But uh I'm going to put the weight into the app. And yes, I am well overweight. Putting my was going to put my uh height in inches in there as well. I was decide not to lie about being six foot this time. I'm only 51.

You'll be able to review all of your results once you complete the entire screening. Let's continue. Let's get rid of the waist scale. Um, and the next thing it's going to want me to do is to uh do this uh do the thing where you um put your tape measure from the tape around your belly. You'll want to stand for this test to get a more accurate measurement. Okay. So, there's the tape. measure. Hit continue on the app. Again, the first step is to identify the correct place to go.

There's a lot of stuff about the waist along your side to locate the lowest rib bone with one hand. With your other hand, identify the upper crest of your hipbone. Your waist is the space between these two areas. Hold the tape measure with the logo facing down. Wrap the tape around your waist and the tape into the slot in the tape measure the button in the center of the tape measure to remove any slack and tape. The tape measure should be snug against you but not squeezing your waist and in line with your belly button.

There we go. Check to make sure that the tape is perfectly horizontal all the way around your body. Take a deep breath in and press the button to allow the tape measure to tighten and remove any slack around your waist. Don't suck in or take an exaggerated breath. Then taking care not to press the button, disconnect the tape measure from itself by removing the end of the tape measure from the slot. After removing it from your waist, take note of the measurement on the outer non-curved side of the tape measure as

shown. Round to the nearest half inch. I'm uh more than I should be. And then the next thing in you then put in your measurement. So I'm 44 in which is uh not great. Perfect. We're calculating my results. Please return the tape measure to the Repario kit and then continue. Next, it asks for my blood pressure again. So, I'm not going to show you put that on the on the video because it's the same as before. And I'll let you know what the result is and see if it's any different.

All right. So, this time I did We've saved your results. This time, this is the last time that you'll use the blood. Did the deep breathing. I relax all that stuff and return it to my blood pressure went up to 190 131 over 93. You probably just You can't quite see that. It's too Anyway, so my pulse went up a bit as well. So I wonder what happened in that last part. Anyway, blood pressure back in the kit, which shows you the blood pressure does vary a ton. Um I don't know what happened other

than the stress of knowing that I'm very fat. All right. Now, here's the main part that screwed up last time, which is we'll go and look at the uh we'll go and look at the lipids and glucose. Now, ask me a bunch of questions. I had anything else to drink other than water? The answer is no. So, I've got um then it wants to watch me a video. And I had some struggles with this video last time because uh the video screen was it was a little hard to see. But I'm going to Before you begin,

show the idea of the video. The video is finished. We will walk you through the blood collection process step by step. [Music] So you put a pipette in the thing in the purple thing [Music] and you take that thing out. That's the problem I had was I put the thing in the wrong way around last time. I didn't think it had much indication what to do, but I missed this part because I I couldn't figure out which you're supposed to. I somehow managed to put the R upside down. It didn't fit and

I broke it. Um, so we'll see what the actual kit looks like this time cuz they may have upgraded that or changed it. This is trying to tell you you got to put it that in with that angle and that way up. But instead of playing music, I think it should actually tell you that because once I screwed that part up, I became one of the 4% allegedly. I don't know if it's actually a real number that Raspio told me screwed this up. But now it's just playing me music, which I don't think is very helpful. And then it shows

you how to how to how to put your finger down, how to stab your finger, and how to drop blood. And amazingly, I didn't have I'm usually have a lot of blood, but last time I didn't have that much blood. So, we'll see how I do on this. But last time, I completely screwed this part up. I actually did it three times and never got either the right amount of blood or the right system in place. So I'll show you how to drop the uh squeeze the pipette. So I don't know. So this is video to me

should have been more like their instructional videos, but we'll we'll we'll see. Okay. Remove the blood sensor and the five plastic containers in the bottom half of the kit to begin your tells you you're back in. You'll also need the purple stand that you removed from inside the blood pressure cuff earlier. All right. So, I've got them out. Direct sunlight can alter the results of these readings. Check the lighting in your area. In order to avoid being in direct sunlight.

All right. The next one. Let's set up your workspace for the test sequence. Using the workspace mat as your work area, place the blood sensor, the purple pipet holder, and the five plastic containers on your mat. It's important that the blood sensor remains within 2 to 3 ft of the kit throughout the screening. Remove the clear plastic film from the face of the blood sensor and discard it. Okay, so the blood in the camera. Try that again. Focus further back. screen. Turn it off. This is not

focusing. Try bring it back up on stand. Okay. Pick up the plastic container labeled pipets and flip open the top. Remove one pipet and fully insert the bulb end of the pipet into the purple pipeet holder as shown. Okay, this to be open. This is a little tricky to open. I was trying to open the wrong way. I see usually the work. So now I'm going to take one pipe out. Put it for the bulb. Have it. Let's do this. Open the container labeled lancets and flip open the top. Remove one lancet and

place it on your workspace mat. Okay, there's the lancet. Let's keep hitting continue, which is kind of annoying. Open the container labeled blood test and remove a bandage, alcohol wipe, gauze pad, and the hazards bag. Also placing these onto your workspace. Okay, the cardio check away, hazards bag, alcohol wipe, pad, all kinds of stuff there. Have to keep it continue. Unwrap one bandage and one gauze pad and set them aside. Don't think there was a bandage in this one here, but I don't really care about

the bandit. May have done me short, but bad. Now is the bit which gets tricky. Determine which finger you would like to use for the test. We recommend either your middle or ring finger on your non-dominant hand. You'll be pricking the fleshy tip of the finger as shown. I think it's going to tell me to go and uh wash my hands. Let's see what happens. You'll need to wash your hands under warm water to increase circulation. Grab a fresh paper towel towel on the way to your sink. Okay, we're going to give this a

different go because I didn't record it last time. Um so, let me show you what the actual process is now. So, this is the sequence. They want you to do your finger first. Clean it with the alcohol wipe. Shake around a bit. I was supposed to wash my hands, so I didn't bother. Um, and then you start messing with this. So, you take the cardio check. You take this part out. This is the thing that I screwed up. The very first container labeled lipid strip. You have put a lipid strip inert which is this one oval facing upwards

towards the sensor. The white oval has to face upwards and towards the center. Have I got it right this time? Okay. Open the container labeled glucose. Then you take the glucose strip out which take up and if you look carefully that's a little arrows which goes in. All right. So I got them all done. I turn on the blood sensor. Pressing that button. And it goes through a bunch of checks. I hit on the app. It says uh checking connectivity. I see that's just too bright. [Music] It says success on the app. So, I

continue. It says, "Does the sensor screen match the image above?" Oh, hang on. I said yes. No, it didn't. Uh, now I have to make it do it again. So, the strip. All right. Now, I've screwed it up again. Jesus. Okay, let's turn this off. This is not last time. I'm going to have to call customer service. Oh no, it's now working. All right. So, whatever fun games that all was, it's now decided it's now working. As you can see, it's got this little thing on the screen saying

apply. All right. So, now get out of this. And there you go. Okay. Now it's time to remove the clear clover from the lancet which I' already done. Cover key hitting connect. Now I want to stab my finger on the center of the fleshy part of the finger that you clean. Press the lancet against your finger until you feel a small poke. So this is the poking. All right. Squeeze the tip of your finger. blood and it's going to first drop your finger by touching it as shown. So I needed to put on the glucose strip

which is that one will see it beeped which I think means that's enough blood and it says it's gone blank. So that's good. And it does match the image. this image. So, we're good. Loads of blood. They still need to wash my hands. Look at that. You never seen so much blood. Now, there's a ton of blood there. She stopped taking it. Okay. So now I now I have to you can then ask you which one most closely matches of these three. Of course you can't see it. The screen's too bright but it's the

one which is full. So it's now let me continue. Carefully remove the pipet. And now removing it. And now the white thing to release the blood onto the test as shown. Squeeze everything in the pipet onto the test. Once the blood is up to 30 seconds there, the sensor beep. They got enough blood there. Now it's processing the sample. test until the test is complete. Now I can start putting all this stuff away in the biohazard bag. I suspect nobody wants my pipette anymore. I don't know how I managed to run the

blood that very first time I tested this. Blood flying out. So you sit around. It's doing run the test allegedly. So now it's just telling me the results are coming in 2 minutes. I should apply a bandage. Don't think I need a bandage. Thing seems to be fine. Stop. There's a beeping and we're done. My test my results are back. Um, okay. See what the results look like. Completing your health screening. Okay. So, there's all the kit, everything back in it. I've turned the

button off. What I do is put the scale on the top and close it. So, the second time around was much more successful. Right. stick it back in the box and uh have to send it back. So I'm now done until we get the results. Okay, so the results are back on the app. Um and uh compared and now let's go compare them to the uh ones I had just done uh last month. See how they do. So I'm going to show you the results here. Yes, my body max index is uh 35, which is probably not great. I need to go on a

diet. Um, let's try and get that better. So, total cholesterol 120, HDL cholesterol 53, LDL 49, triglycerides 88, glucose 116. All right. Now, let's I'm going to share my screen and uh show you what the lab core is. So glucose was 115 compared to 116. So that's pretty accurate. Almost exactly the same. Moderately high. Oh, my glucose is so high. I guess I had too much ice cream again. Um, obviously there's a bunch of stuff on my lab tests that um are not here. Um uh and uh let me go down and

find where the panel is. All right. So it says my total cholesterol was 120. uh lab core had it at 116 which isn't bad. It shows you that zokore works very well even you have a terrible diet. So that's pretty good. That's actually by far the lowest cholesterol score I've ever had. So 120 116 you know it's in the same same kind of range. Uh HDL triglycerides uh it had my triglycerides uh at 88 whereas um they were 59 um a lab call. So that's quite a big distinction. um HDL cholesterol uh it had uh at 53

whereas labcore was 48. So that's kind of you know a little high of the same sort of range. Um and LDL cholesterol which I think is the the bad stuff. Um the uh cardio check out at 49 and here it's at 55. Um, it doesn't do your A1C, which is a bit of a pity. That's good to know. Good news to know is that my A1C is actually 5.7, which considering how overweight I am is not bad. So, um, you know, in the very minor pre-diabetes case and probably should be able to get that down. So,

I think the conclusion is that the cardio check was pretty accurate. The blood pressure was uh pretty accurate one out of two times. the um uh it was useful to to make you do the uh thing around the belly um the measurement the circumference because that's actually pretty important in Japan they make everyone do that and they sort of shame you into becoming thin and uh probably you know bit of that in the US wouldn't come a miss um and then uh finally you know what I think of the overall experience so like

I said I did it last time and I screwed it up uh I screwed up the blood checking thing and apparently 4% of people you know don't complete the test. Which was surprising to me because I mean I tend to think of myself as being fairly um you know okay with technology and figuring this stuff out. I don't have a problem breaking my finger you know etc. etc. But um you know I got the like I said I did it wrong three times. I had the thing in upside down. The second time didn't produce enough blood. And

then the third time um I think I'd broken the machine so it didn't get a correct reading uh by putting the thing in upside down. Um this time I paid attention. and I knew what I'd done wrong last time. I still think they can make it a little bit more visible which side it should go up and down, but you do have to to pay attention. I don't I'm not a great fan of the way they do the video with the music. I think they should be shouting at you more as to how to put it and they should they should

they should have more visual clues perhaps bigger visual clues with worse eyesight like me on the on the cardio check. But overall, it's not bad. And I think the answer is the triglyceride uh measures was a bit different as I said you know it was it was a bit different but the other ones were all pretty damn close to where it had been. So I think it's pretty useful and the goal that the folks told me is a couple of things. Number one is to identify people who are, you know, who have not had this.

And I can imagine there are a bunch of predominantly, you know, middle-aged males who have not paid any attention to their health in a while, you know, who haven't had their test, haven't had a primary care. And the fact that they can get them this kit and, you know, in half an hour sit there and do it without them having to leave their home, you know, is probably a big advantage over them having to go find a primary care doctor um if they haven't got one. Repirio is I believe going to either

work with a tele health company or directly itself do tell health. I'm not sure if that's up and running. It may not be up and running in my state. It may be up and running in other states where basically they can do a tellahalth visit immediately after this presumably with a nurse practitioner or a primary care doc who can then sort of review the results with the person and uh they're selling this to employers. Um and you know I think uh it's probably you know again not a bad idea to start

getting people into the system who have probably not been in the system. We know that many many people don't have primary care doctors. We know there are many people in America who are not paying attention to their health. And I guess the answer is that you know going through this process where you do you know maybe you haven't weighed yourself in a while maybe you haven't taken your blood pressure in a while um and go hm you know these are things I should start taking care of. Uh I don't quite know

how that connects to what happens next. Um presumably uh maybe the folks period will tell me if they if you go into a system and have a tele health visit and you got some issues. Um they might try it's an employer based thing. They might try to link you back via your health plan to you know other services. This presumably to me would be a pretty good front end to someone like me who might have you know uh who might who might have issues with weight you know to be shoving them into an Amada health

program or something like that. So, I think it's it's good and useful. This level's testing. I don't think there's any sort of over testing here. I don't think you're going to find out. I mean, you might um get a false positive, but in general, it's pretty uh correct. And if your cholesterol is too high, you probably should be on a statin. And my cholesterol was too high um a few years ago and I got put on a steadily increasingly stronger stat and now look my cholesterol is now. Now, there's a

separate whole argument. Does does your cholesterol actually matter? the cholesterol number that matters or whatever and other stuff going and obviously the lab test done on the cardio check is nowhere near as comprehensive as you know doing a full panel that I had done a lab call but you know um it's it's probably useful for for people who you know aren't able to get out personally I have a primary care doc and one medical and I also have no problem with somebody pricking my arm I'm a blood donor I'm quite used to that

and I actually would rather just in all honesty personally go for the process of just, you know, going to labcore and having someone stick my arm and being out in 5 minutes. Um, you know, those visits are incredibly quick and if you don't mind being stabbed with a needle in your arm, I actually find it less painful than stabbing my finger or having somebody else stab my finger with the uh the the lancet. But, you know, I think it's a a good idea. And the the the goal I think what Rapier is trying

to do here is to get this as a basically service where they can you know for rather less money than having something someone come into lab call come to a primary care doc send this out get a tellahalth visit for those who need it as part of it and get a bunch of people back into the health system into preventive care who have not done that before. Now much much longer arguments about whether people you know whether preventative care works for the rest of it but the ACA pays for preventive care visit every year and as does Medicare

and most people don't get it. So uh you know um strikes me as not a bad idea and this time round I got the experience about right. So signing off. Thanks to the people of Apirio for uh sending me the kit twice. Um, just to point out, they didn't pay me to do this. So, I was just uh So, this is me uh um you know, doing a sort of self test to see how things are going um and looking what the experience was like.