Title: Matthew explores the referral process
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V_AmbYK4obQ
Language: en
Duration: 00:21:38
Upload Date: Jul 1, 2025

Transcription:

Hi, so it's Matthew Hol. We are going to have a little bit of fun as we look at healthcare consumerism. I just came back from the AHIP conference in Vegas where I got to hang out with a lot of fun people uh have some uh fun times in the Icebar, look at some cool new tech and all the rest of it. And I heard a lot from health plans and people selling the health plans about all kinds of different issues, but clearly one of the big ones is the consumer experience. all people throwing AI at the stuff on the

rest of it. I also heard from Paul Marovich who these days is uh no longer the CEO of Blue Shield but is the CEO of the holding company for Blue Shield name which I forget. Um he was interviewed by venture capitalist Julie Yu. A lot of discussion about uh the different way they're doing pharmacy and different way they're doing technology and how they're getting data together interpilly and how he wants governments to regulate them more. And I have some suggestions as to how government should regulate. And I

did see him outside and I went up to him very briefly said, "Hi Paul, good to see you." Um, but I got to tell you, as a member, I am still getting incredible letters from Blue Shield. I just put a bunch in the trash. Uh, where in that case, Blue Shield wrote to me and every member of my family telling us that, uh, one of the members of the family had spent a few dollars towards our deductible. And I think we were now on the way to $200 family deductible out of 8,000. and we get a letter. Each of us,

all four of us, including my 10-year-old and 14-y old, get a letter every time that changes. Why are they doing that? I don't know. So, I thought what we'd do today is look at a couple of things that have happened to me personally and try to figure out how I would navigate through the different systems to get there, including Blue Shields. So, here we go. So, we are going to start with where I started fairly recently. About a month ago, I went for my annual wellness checkup covered under the ACA and I'm a

61y old man and there are things that are starting to happen. I'm not in the best of shape and my doctor suggested a bunch of stuff that I should do. So, one of the things we've had a lot of discussion about is the complexity of referrals. In fact, there's a company called Tenner that raised $100 million yesterday to uh allegedly improve referrals. So, let's see what referrals look like. I'm not going to be using Tenner, of course. I'm just using the current state-of-the-art and the Blue

Shield website. What happened next? Okay, so here we are. I'm on the War Medical website. This is the uh final. This is the summary visit done partly, I think, using ambient that my doctor Andrew Diamond said to me. bunch of stuff about this, that, and the other, you know. Um, but let's ignore the fact that I'm overweight. My blood pressure is too high for the moment. Maybe I'll take care of that. Maybe I won't. Let's figure that out. Let's talk about uh some of the things that I've been sent

to. So, first off, I talk about this. I have had a heart murmur for a long time. Um, I don't think it's a big deal. I think Andrew thinks it's a big deal but nonetheless in the blue in the uh Amazon medical system they have a care plan and he said I want to send you a referral for for an echo cardiogram. So here's the echo cardiogram referral and you know what you should do how I booked the visit. He referred me to this organization Marine Health Hospital which is part connected to UCSF which uh

is got a deal with one medical. I'm not quite sure how the terms of that deal, but if you like, you can actually see the referral here, the indication, the summary, a bit about me, all the rest of it. Um, blah blah blah, you know, what my insuranceances, all good. Okay. So, what do I do next? Well, what I actually did next was I called Marine Health um at the number that was indicated in this this number and I was told they did not have the referral in my chart and they also did not have the prior

authorization and they had to be sended again. Well, funnily enough, the reason I was in actually did this was because I had been sent this. This is a letter sent to me from Blue Shield um saying that yes, I do indeed have treatment prior authorization for this exact service. Okay, fair enough. So, um it was a bit odd that Marine Health didn't have this, but then I thought of something else. I've heard a lot as you all have over the years about different costs for outpatient referral centers versus hospitals the rest of it.

And this is I've been referred to a hospital for their imaging center. So I thought hm perhaps I should go figure out what I should where I should go um for this and perhaps I shouldn't go to the outpatient hospital is actually figure out what the cost going to be to me. So let me go and take a look at the costs. Okay. So, now we're on the Blue Shield of California website. Um, and uh, it's the member web app and there's a whole bunch of things you can do here. So, let's take a look at my

coverage and my benefits. So, what I'm trying to find out here is what uh, am I going to have to pay under my plan, which is uh, the exchange HMO born on the Cal California exchange for this. And I found come down here into medical benefits. So, something called diagnostic X-ray. Now, this isn't that intuitive because it now says I'm having uh there's advanced imaging and there's uh basic imaging, but there is a distinction between an outpatient radiology center and the outpatient

department of a hospital is being sent to Marine Health, which is the uh the local hospital here in Marin County. So, let's look at this. If I go to an outpatient radiology center uh and it's an in network, the copay is $95. Okay. So, let's go back and see what happens if I go to Oh, I have to go all the way back to this page. If I go to an outpatient department of a hospital, which I think is what this is. It's also $95. I must have got that wrong. I thought it was going to be a

lot more than that. Okay, now here's the next question. What are the benefits here? Um, looks like some quite advanced stuff here. CT, PET, MRI, and all the rest of it. So, I assume mine is basic. Um, what would have happened though if my medical benefit for this had been if if I required advanced imaging? Let's go take a look again. In that case, it's advanced imaging. And by the way, this text is almost exactly the same as far as I can tell. Advanced imaging, the cost is $325. So, uh um maybe that's different. Let's

just check that the other one that the if let's see what uh a non uh a freestanding center would be for advanced imaging. Let's look at an outpatient radiology center. Costto is also 325. So you have to figure out is this uh advanced not advanced. I assume it's not advanced but you can't tell from this uh from the way it's written up here because you know these appear to be in both categories. So um I was a little surprised and I thought when I looked at this before that there was a difference between uh

outpatient radiology centers which are freestanding and uh the uh hospital-based ones which of course will have uh um site facility fee. We've heard a lot about uh unable unequal payments for and site specific fees but uh maybe not. All right. Well, let's for now stop here cuz I want to go and try and find a a center if I want to go to a different place. Okay. So, it was a little weird to me as to why they break this up between outpatient radiology center or outpatient department of the hospital um

when they charge me the same amount. 325 for advanced and 95 for basic and they don't distinguish on the exactly what the difference is between basic and and advanced. I'm just going to assume electro electroc cardioraph. Echo cardioraph for me would be would be basic. But let's say um I did want to find a particular outpatient radiology center. So how would I find one? So I'd go to the find a doctor tab and um if you look by specialty, this is my location. This is my uh plan. Um I'm not

sure where I should be looking here. Maybe they're looking clinic outpatient. Uh, it says there are no doctors in my network within 100 miles of this. So, let's try a facility type and see if we can find one that has radiology in it. Looks like I have radiology domestic x-ray in here twice for some reason. So, let's search on those. And there's no facilities in my network. So, that's kind of weird. So I I'm now looking for a facility. So let's instead try by uh specialty

instead of doing clinic outpatient let's do radiology and let's select those. They come up again the radiology x-ray. So let's search those. There's a third specialy selected. I don't want the third one is I can't see it in this link. I see two selected. It says three is selected but anyway let's go for that. And now we find 15 doctors and they're probably all connected to uh for instance if you look this is where a whole bunch of these doctors are Brown and Toland West. Um

they're on the same building. I suspect it's a radon X-ray. I suspect this one therefore is in network and I could I don't know if there's a way to find out whether this is freestanding or connected to a hospital. There is a big hospital up in Nevada. There's a subtle hospital, but I suspect this is freestanding. And maybe this one is the SA hospital, I think. But well, here's another here's another one just down the street. This is 504 Redwood as opposed to 500 Redwood. So, it's a little hard

to find out where they came to the hospital. If um Oh, look. There was actually one in very close to my hometown. So, let's click on this guy. Oh, no. That's where I am. Sorry. Um, but that's all there appear to be uh in this link over this one. So, let's um so the Marina Health where I've been sent is actually not it's not here. So, I wonder if I can uh find that by medical group name instead. Um, if that comes up and doesn't seem to be coming up. I wonder if I just put Marine Health in

what will come up. Um, maybe it's facility name. the South Marine Health and Wellness Center comes up but not the Marine Health. So, um this is not this is a well maybe this is this is quite close to the hospital. If you look on the map, the hospital is actually uh where's the where's the hospital? The hospital is I believe it's somewhere in this area. I think it's uh I think it's on this I think it's in this area right here. Um but if we put the satellite on, we can probably see

it. Um yeah, I think the hospital's here. So I think that the hospital is actually very close to this center, but I don't know if this is connected to the hospital, and I also don't know if it does radiology. I do know it's in my plan, so I don't know what it is, but there we go. Um it's uh it's uh it has something to do with it. All right. So for right now to me that's a little confusing. Uh it does tell me that there are uh the difference between outpatient facilities um and radiology came to the

hospital. It doesn't tell me um which is which or how I find them or in the doctor search. So if those two prices were different and I would assume that for for some cases the uh because of the lack of sight neutral p payments the uh the hospital is more expensive than the outpatient facility. It's not really it's not very helpful to explain to me where to where to go and where to find it. So let's pause this here and then I'll go back and I'll try and figure out what I need to be doing about

my dermatology. Okay. So we know for the first one that there was a referral made um to marine health which didn't get there because we see by showing the referral and we know that somehow blue shield was alerted and created a prioritization and whatever Andrew Diamond my doctor wrote on the form was good enough for me to um actually you know to be worthy of of having my armor checked out. The other things I have is I have a few uh dermatology issues um which I won't but I I I won't tell you much about um and I

certainly won't show you. They're pretty unpleasant and a lot of that part of my body. But uh I have some stuff that you know I want to get checked out and taken care of particularly because Andrew might have something to do with a uh might have something to do with an autoimmune issue. I don't think it has that case but you know who knows. And it says go do a referral with Albert Ping. Now here we go. This is a local dermatologist to me. Um, Sweden Raphael and uh, I need to go and, you know, pick

the referral. Here is the letter about the referral. Just some issues about what's going on with me. Not particularly great, blah blah blah. Uh, again, Blue Shield of California and all the rest of that stuff. So, you'd assume now that I need to figure out if Albert Pang, this doctor, is in the Blue Shield network. So, let's go back to the uh, find a doctor piece. And I'm looking for dermatology comes up. So let's see if who's in the list of dermatology. Now it's offering me

virtual virtual medical care which I assume goes to Amwell or to accolade or to uh yeah um accolade or now transcar somebody or in person. So I assume because I have things that need to be touched and possibly biopsied. Let's go search in person. And here we go. A bunch of doctors in 15 miles. Now the location about paying is very close to me. Um so here we go. It maybe he's not in Brown and Toland which is perhaps not a good referral. Here are a bunch of people in Brown and Toland in uh they're in either Cadere or

Mil Valley. This is Cadira's Mil Valley. I live up here in Sanmo and Albert Ping appears not to be in the network for the HMO. So, let me uh go back and see if we can find Ping, Dr. Ping. There are there's a Lang and a Maid Dane, but there's no Ping. So, so it's going to come back and say neither these two are in my network. Um, I'm going to try I'm going to pause it here and try a little experiment. Okay, here's our little experiment. Let's see if uh I have now logged out of

the system. You see I can log in. So I'm not here. It doesn't right now know who I am. It's not connecting it to my HMO. And let's see if we can find a doctor and see what it's see what it finds for sure without this. So let's go back to dermatology. It's asking for a plan. Okay. Let's let's uh pick um a big employee group. Plan is the best coverage. Um let's do PO. That probably mean we'll continue with that plan. That probably gets us the widest coverage. And then let's do

dermatology. And it's got found 42 doctors. Remember I had 15 before in the other thing. And um let's see if I can find one of San Rafael. I still don't see one in this part of San Rafale. There might be one up here. Um, and there he is. There's Albert Pang at Total Care Dermatology in Lascalinus. And this, by the way, I believe is in the same building that War Medical, which is in network, is in um up in uh this area of may not be. Yes, I'm pretty sure it is in the same building up in this area of

San Rafael, but I can't get to them. So in this case, even though my one medical knows what plan I'm in, the referral they've made is to a doctor who's not covered. So what would happen if I went if I took up that referral? So let's go look at uh I have to log back in as me. I'll come back when I've done that. All right. So now I've logged back in as me. It knows I'm in the Silver 73 HMO. And let's try and figure out from the benefits the coverage. If I go to

um a specialist, so I don't know where I would find dermatology on this list. There's a bunch of different stuff. I guess it's just physician other professional services. Uh there's a bunch of things. So maybe it's a office visit consultation and they tell me that my benefit cost is $35 per visit and that covers all kinds of things I think including all this stuff. What I don't know is what if I get and I can go here as if I go to this piece about evidence of coverage. What happens if I um go to a

um provider network? It just says here you'll pay the most use out of network provider. You might get balanced build um and by the way your your network provider might use some out of network providers. So might be some surprise billing and it does say you need a ref will place some of the all the cost to see a specialist for covered services but if you have a referral so I do need a referral because it is an HMO. Fair enough. Um, doesn't tell me how much I'll pay out of network because I guess the answer is it

won't cover me at all if I go out of network. So, um, the answer is I'm going to have to go back to one medical and say they gave me a prov referral to a provider who's not in network. So you can obviously see that if um one medical knew properly what my situation was um as opposed to you know it's it's written pretty clearly on the uh hang on it's written pretty clearly on the referral document here that I have a shield of California HMO and he has my ID and my group number but

that doesn't integrate with the referral network of Blue Shield to figure out who actually is in network that I should go and see. And so this is just a doctor that they've the Dr. Ping is the doctor that clearly lives close to me and uh Andrew Diamond Dr. Diamond has referred me to. So I guess the um I guess the overall answer here is that when you look at companies who are both selling to medical groups and selling at hospitals and selling to um health plans there's a huge opportunity

here right to sort of basically do this data integration. Most of this data about who I should go and see and where I should go, who the least costly is and who's going to cost more and which which situations are cost more, which going to cost less is all available. Um, it's just not made very obvious in any one place. And I suspect that because I'm a bit of a nerd and I care about this stuff and I'm doing this because I write a blog about healthcare, I'm probably going to look for this. But I suspect

that many people wouldn't would make that appointment with Dr. paying and be kind of surprised to find that they're out of network and not covered and have to go back and and ask for a different referral to a different place. So there is a huge opportunity here even though we've got now a lot of the data that's available to integrate it and make it useful for patients. And my hope is that of all the people we're seeing getting funded, whether it's for referral management, utilization management,

customer experience, all the rest of it, and all this AI stuff we're talking about, let's hope something can fix some of these more basic basic problems and make experience a little bit better than the one I've been having.