Title: Matthew Holt tried to change PCP on Blue Shield of CA site
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HnV8HBpTeFc
Language: en
Duration: 04:26
Upload Date: Jan 7, 2026

Transcription:

Happy new year, Ron. Matthew Halt here.   Just to keep you up with the Italian   novela that is my coverage with copper   California, blue shield and all the   above. I'm going to do a little bit of   web surfing on the blue shield site to   show you how fun and games it all is.   So, uh, a while back that I about this,   I managed to successfully change my   primary care doc with Blue Shield to the   actual primary care doc I have, which is   Andrew Diamond at One Medical.

So, what   happened next? Well, for some reason   it's very unclear. Um, they cancelled   and then reinstated my uh insurance and   that took a lot of fighting between   Cover California and Bridge California.   Um, and I was reinstated as late as   December the 24th. And then on January   the second, I got a notice of my   insurance being canceled.

Why had it   been cancelled? Well, because uh   apparently it didn't get paid on January   the 1st. Why didn't it get paid? because   when they had changed my number, they   had somehow deleted the auto payment   that happened happened that had happened   every month since December, sorry, since   I think December the 31st, 2023.

Um, so uh anyway, there we go. Uh, I   eventually after and I detailed this up   on which I'll put on the THCB shortly,   but I detailed it all on the, uh, on   LinkedIn. I spent maybe about three   hours on hold with both Covered   California's chat and Blue Shield   various customer service lines and I got   confirmed that I had actually paid them   some money um and on uh which I went to   a a sort of bill pay account that   they've set up which is not part of the   regular Blue Shield um the not part of   the regular Blue Shield   uh customer service site website but now   I'm on the Blue Shield customer service   site. So, let's take a little look at   what is happening.   And you can see that actually I owe them   some money. I don't ow them some money.   Maybe uh well, I'll figure that out   later. But here's the important part. I   have this new uh membership number. This   is a different number than I had either

in December or in uh October, November   when they cancelled my account. And I   have a primary care doctor, a guy called   Eugene Tucker, which was a great do I   never heard of. He actually is a virtual   care doctor through accolade which these   days is owned by Transparent by the way.   But so let's go take a quick look at   that.

This is what I've been automatically   assigned to   and it doesn't work. [laughter]   So [clears throat] let's go. Let's give   up on that. We talk to my friends at   Transarent and Accolate about that.   Apparently I can't. Let's go back. So   instead, let's go to uh changing my PCB.   Now,   let's go find Andrew Diamond.

After all,   he is the guy who was my official   PCP. No match. Now, you wonder, perhaps   he's got fallen out of the system.   Perhaps he's not around. Let's go back   to the main dashboard. And you'll see   that I'm on this thing called the blue   shield silver 73 trio. I was also on the   same one that was became inactive   because I didn't pay my bill on 1231.

I   mean nice them to give me some time even   though they actually cancelled the auto   payment. And here's the one that was   inactive because of the whole kathuffle   around my citizenship recover   California. If I go back and look at   that one which was my health plan up   until the end of November.

Look there he   is. He's my primary care physician.   Andrew Diamond. um who's part of Baron   positions West Bay. Um however, I can't   seem to find him in the new search I   just did. So, I can't make him my   physician, my primary care physician.   I'm not sure this matters. Not sure it   makes any difference whether or not.   There we go.

We're back to where I am   today. Eugene TCO. I'm not sure if this   makes any difference. As far as I can   tell, he never was my official primary   care physician for the previous 10 years   I've been using him. And several of   those I had Blue Shield. But   nonetheless, isn't it just completely   strange that they don't allow you to   find somebody who clearly is in their   system?   Oh well, more fun and games for Blue   Shield and their wonderful technology.

