Title: Owen Tripp, Included Health--How to Fix AI
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QRW76FNwSY0
Language: en
Duration: 01:01:46
Upload Date: Sep 21, 2026

Transcription:

[music]  Matthew Halt with the healthcare blog  back with Owen Trip the CEO of included  health. Owen uh we haven't chatted in a  while and the good news is absolutely  nothing has happened to included health  or about this topic you've heard of  called AI um in the last six months but  apparently we're all stopping it now or  something.

Anyway, so just to uh bring  everyone up to speed, included health  for those people who haven't seen it uh  haven't seen it before is a company that  now encompasses a lot of different  health care services going all the way  from second opinions which I've used to  primary care to all the way to  navigation working with many big  employers.

uh the biggest public sector  employer in the state employer in the in  the world in the in the union I guess  Kalpers right there's many others and uh  you've been talking a lot about a number  of things like health plans but in the  last year probably the most significant  thing that included health one of the  most included health has done is come  out with its own AI platform called doc  so why don't we start here with we're  going to go bigger into AI but let's  start with what is included health doing  for its customers with AI right now.

Yeah. And um good to see you. Uh one of  the things I think we can celebrate at  the start of our conversation here  today, especially as two old dogs in  healthcare. Uh  I'm not sure by the way,  just is that um I think on this podcast  we've talked about our first story of  meeting. Maybe we'll have to we'll have  to uh in which you told me this would  never work.

That would never work. I said that  second opinions alone will maybe I said  it would never work. Anyway, one of the  things I think we can celebrate is that  this topic, which hopefully you and I  are going to spend some time on today,  uh is really one where I don't think  we're starting from behind. You know,  those of us who are technologists  working in healthcare, uh, really feel  like we've always been sort of trying to  drag healthcare into modern frameworks,  data compatibility,  uh, member-f facing uh, and member  usable experiences, provider tooling,  all that stuff has always felt like we  were operating from uh, years behind, if  not decades behind. This is one where I  feel like the best applications of AI  today are already in healthcare or at  least some of them are and uh and  included health is very proud to lead  the way. It's been the most fun uh that  I've had on product and product design  and technology uh than since probably  when we launched into navigation almost

a decade ago. Uh so I'm excited to talk  to you about it today.  really what's on my mind. I can set up  what Dot's been doing, but I have to  tell you that I come into this  conversation today on Tuesday, September  15th, uh with mind and heart fully in  how do we make sure that all of this  innovation, all of this incredible power  that we're putting directly into  people's hands to access better  healthcare? How do we make sure that  that is safe, that it is private, that  it is free of bias? These are topics  that are just sort of screaming loud in  my head and I want to tell you uh about  what we're doing with DOT but what  specifically  we're leading with on those key domains  of safety and privacy. Um Matthew, if I  may, I'm just going to set up what dot  does for your for your viewers because  they may not be super familiar. Uh if  you're not one of the uh many many uh  million included health members today,  you might not have had a chance to play  with this. Um so DOT is a memberfacing  assistant

that can straddle mindbody and wallet  across the healthcare domain and indeed  tries to make those differences actually  disappear because what we know about  member and patient need is that when  you're going through something you're  likely going to have medical questions.  You're going to have financial  questions.

You're going to have  administrative questions about what's  covered and how you get access to it.  you're going to want to merge physical  and mental health in a way that feels  natural and doesn't require you to take  some off-ramp off into another agent to  another experience. And so DOT's  starting uh strategy was really to be uh  your front-end superpowered medical  member of the family who could take you  across all of those domains.

And to give  you a sense of history here, um, while  we're talking about it today with a  freshness as if we're just launching,  this is really about two years of  experience that we're going to talk  about today in playing around with and  then ultimately productizing um, what  that member facing AI can do. Um, we've  launched this to millions of members.

This isn't this isn't actually a sort of  speculative uh, set of uh, information  I'm going to share with you today. This  is born specifically out of our direct  experience. um are direct experiencing  and watching people have very long  conversations with DOT. Uh in some cases  these go 20 or 30 minutes uh in  engagement and having conversations  where they disclose on a compar on a  comparative basis more information than  we see sometimes in our primary care  practice where a human is acquiring the  same level of history and concern and  need and chief complaint etc. We see  that DOT is able to handle seamlessly  questions about what's covered by the  plan design, who's in network, uh what  they're specialized for, and then uh  today, and this is the big update, we're  sharing with the world that uh in this  most current version of DOT, we can  actually convert that advice,  recommendation, and understanding into  action. And we think that's going to be

a big part of the future of healthcare  AI is that they all have to convert to  action. So you can schedule  appointments, you can follow up on  medical records, you can explore um and  then pre-seelelect uh different members  of your care team to make sure that  they're part of your ongoing care. So  that's just a little bit of foundation  and background on DOT.

Um and uh I'm  happy to uh I'm happy to sort of start  our conversation there.  Well, let's let's dig into a little bit  about what's going on here, right?  because  you are seeing the big LLMs um and some  of the smaller ones I've been playing  with insightful med which is very  interesting uh as has uh anthropic at  GBT starting to now advertise how  they're linking back to you can go to  your find your medical record at  whatever place bring it in sometimes  using partners sometimes doing it direct  who knows but they're clearly starting  to go down the path of going yeah just  answering your question about the  generic issue you have ain't enough  right Um, so there that you have the  advantage that you have not only you  know a lot about your members and  customers like what plan they're in  probably a lot about their health and  the rest of it and you also have on your  team primary care mental health  specialty referrals and a bunch of other  stuff. So  with now we go moving from sort of

questions to action. Yes, I get the  admin. My deductible is whatever I need  the rest of if I want this drug it's  going to cost me that much or whatever  which is is very valuable. But um the  bit which I think people are getting  most interested about and we'll lead  into our later conversation about  privacy, security, safety and where this  all goes with AI is okay how much can  the AI do and at what point does it need  to bring in a human um and at what point  and how much time, effort, energy for  the human, the clinical provider or  whatever flavor is having is the patient  having had that conversation with the AI  dot or your dot in your case first. So,  give me a flavor of where that line is  today, what people are saying, when does  it go to when does it go to human? How  does it organize that interaction? And  then where do you think it's going?  Yeah, let me let me give you some good  use cases of what it can do today and  then I'm going to back it up and and go  to the part of what we 

bring to the equation that makes all this possible  because you've covered a couple pieces  of that, but I want to make sure I  highlight a few others. So, okay. So  what what can an AI do today or what can  really I think the best way to think  about it is what can what can a an  automation super intelligent automation  do when it has agent capabilities to  reach across the rest of the system and  conduct uh activities on your behalf.

So  I highlighted the ability to schedule an  appointment. Um that in and of itself is  actually a quite a complex experience.  You have to make sure you understand  what health plan and insurance coverage  that member has. You have to understand  what their medical history is and  specific needs are.

You have to be able  to select provider or providers that are  well suited and high quality to address  the underlying member need. You then  have to find a way to manage the  schedule both on behalf of the member  and the provider. Uh and then you have  to confirm that appointment and make  sure all the information that is  necessary to uh make certain that  appointment is transmitted both to the  provider and to the member.

So that's  actually inside of it quite a complex  set of activities. Um all of those are  covered and those can cover outpatient  activities really of any variety today.  And one of the sort of cool things that  we've worked on, which might feel small  for you, but but but I I can assure you  anybody who has recently tried to book  an appointment has experienced this  where they will go in and they will  think I want to book this specific  provider only to discover that that  specific provider isn't available, but  the office friendly in a friendly manner  suggests five other people who could  take that patient faster. Well, to  handle that situation, we have to have  switching logic built in that helps us  understand in advance whether any of  those other 

providers would actually be  suitable. Um, and I think we've talked  in the past about our approach to  algorithmic assessment of quality. And  so we need to know, you know,  immediately of those five other  potential providers, yeah, one or two of  them are actually okay. Uh, three other  ones are not on the on the, you know,

they're on the no-fly list. And to be  able to sort of in in that moment  seamlessly switch to that logic. So just  unpacking that one transaction in  healthcare helps you understand the  complexity there. But that's not DOT's  only trick. DOT can fetch and review uh  your plan documents, your explanation of  benefits.

We can and will alert you to  charges that are out of line and then we  will automatically suggest that we  should go fight on your behalf. Um, and  this is why we've returned millions of  dollars of patient responsible payment  to the health care system because they  were overbuild by the provider systems  themselves.

Just to give you an example  of it, I'll give you a third one. We  could go on for a long time in this  conversation, but you know, we all know  that many of us who enjoy,  you know, commercially covered health  plans, these are the things that our  employers provide for us that have have  all these benefits. Uh, you know, this  is the space we work in.

of course  included health offers one to all of our  employees and their families. Well,  those benefits aren't always easily  recognized or memorized. So, another  trick that DOT has uh and this is one  we've had from the beginning. We're just  sort of sharpening the capability is to  say, "Hey, listen.

We know you're coming  out of uh this knee episode. We've sort  of talked about your bill. We've talked  about your pharmacy, the best place to  get it, but now we really need to talk  about physical therapy." and you do have  Hinge as a benefit that's going to be  for your specific need less expensive  than other providers.

So, we think  that's a great place to start. Can we go  ahead and enroll enroll that uh for you  directly? Um and that's the way we want  to build across the rest of the  ecosystem. So, instead of paper  partnerships with uh other benefits  providers, the intent is how do we make  sure that we've actually built um  freeways that allow the members to  connect directly to those benefits.

Uh  those are examples of just how we move  across my body and wallet of course all  of our virtual care services you know  whether it's behavioral health uh from  everything from coaching to you know  psychotherapy to acute psychiatric care  um primary care urgent care specialty  care all the second opinions all these  things uh you know are integrated  through this singular AI platform and  the idea is that the member shouldn't  have to figure out where they need to go  which is of course what we've all had to  do up until this point. Yeah, I'm  actually uh I've been uh enrolled in in  in a new plan for resident recently. Um  and uh quite exciting to see that they  have a list of I don't know 20 odd point  solutions including I think seven or

eight in mental health and three or four  in MSK and  going how on earth would anybody try to  figure out the difference between these?  So I think you know you're putting if  you have uh an AI tool whether it's DO  or anything else especially one that's  linked into those and knows that okay

 I'm an employee at Walmart and I have  these six things available to me there's  probably one there's probably one or two  which actually are better for me and if  you data behind you know that's a that's  a very powerful thing to to  well I mean and this is you know you and  I have been not only students of I think  we've been boosters of the ecosystem for  a long time and I think one of the  things I'm excited about you know about  what the possib possibilities are here  is that point solutions which have  always had clinical validity but just

haven't had much engagement might see  that they're used more and used more  appropriately. I'm really excited about  that. I mean you can sort of go through  the list, you know, fertility benefits,  uh neuro uh diversity benefits and  support systems, weight loss, um other  cardiumabolic care, I mean on down the  list you can you can find the most  appropriate solution. Those should have  a deflationary effect on healthcare  because in almost all cases the digital  equivalent of that service or solution  is less expensive and easier to use. The

problem is it's just never been easy to  find it on the benefits. Now there there  probably will be some pricing effects as  as you know uh those same vendors figure  out that those pepm contracts they've  been on don't make sense anymore. Um but  you know all of that I think would be a  welcome change. Yeah.

And how how their  stuff gets paid for and who recommends  and all the rest is a sort of separate  bucket that we can Yeah. Peterson folks  running around now saying that Cody the  kidney disease stuff doesn't work. But  yeah, I saw that from Peter I saw that  from Peterson yesterday.  Yeah, we see that. Um, all right. Let me  let me go push you a bit more on this  issue of Okay, so I've been telling Dot  something about my health and all the  rest of it.

How much can do Dot tell me?  And at what point where do you decide,  okay, I've got to stop and get you an  appointment. And is does it have to be  an appointment or is there like a live  can I can I do the shunt to a live human  or what kind of humans are you able to  have available right then and there and  who I have to wait 20 minutes for and  who I have to have an appointment for  next week.

This is a great question and um I'm  going to answer it on two levels. one um  maybe I'm going to start with actually  the sort of even provocative rapper of  this whole thing to make sure we we  we're in agreement  AI today even consumer grade AI which is  not what we're talking about here we're  talking about sort of enter grade  enterprisegrade medical grade AI but  sort of even the sort of consumer grade  AI that's available to most people  already can do more than AI owners are  letting it do in other words you know we  could push these things to be pulling  all the way through to diagnostic care.  It just turns out that um uh most of the  owners of those AI systems do not want  to inherit the liability and the sort of  ambiguous law uh associated with that.  But I think that's coming. So just with  that as sort of like a baseline to where  we're starting, the problem actually  becomes how do you safely deploy and  manage those uh agents or or um you know

assistants to help people get care  that's actually safe and contextually  relevant. Um, and so a lot of our early  effort, I'm going to get to the human in  the loop part in a second, but a lot of  our early effort was really about making  sure that we established and trained for  guardrails that helped DOT specifically  alert and pull people into um  conversations as needed uh either to  advance care because it needed a human  review and a human approval uh or to  schedule what would be a necessary  follow-up. and critically, although  thankfully these incidents are fewer, um  to make sure that we're escalating  immediately on uh signs of suicidality,  signs of an acute event that required uh  intervention. We we've had this, by the  way, uh built into even our original  virtual care practices. Uh you know, a  clinician could push a button on the  back end and dispatch EMS because we  know where all these people are are  calling from and and you know,

unfortunately, we have to do that  hundreds of times per year. Um, so now  DOT can actually do the same flagging  from a safety incident perspective, but  also has a lot of guardrails with where  it doesn't sort of wander off and get  over, you know, beyond the scope of  prescribing and recommending etc. And I  think we've shown you some side bysides  with a consumer grained AI versus DOT on  these topics so that DOT um you know is  operating more in the context of what is  safe efficient evidence law-based care  you know in each of these states in  which we operate  Daddy.  D

Hey, hey, hey, hey.  I get that. Um, and I, you know, my  personal experience, which has not been  using DOT because I'm still certainly  not as good as health member. One day  I'll get a job with the state of  California and then be able to use it.  Yeah, there you go. That's great.  But for now, um,  you should be a fireman in our in our  home county.

I should be I should become a volunteer  fireman or something useful. When I get  my shoulder and the knee fixed, that'll  all happen. Anyway, but uh but  giving my now rather extensive imaging  and and diagnostic history into both  chroic and cycle med um they are coming  up with quite a lot. So you know you  you'll say what about this and they'll  say yeah I mean in many cases here's  what we'd recommend for this to happen.

Here's a course of action. You should  probably get this procedure. You might  want to get that procedure. If you have  got this injury, you may want to be able  to wait and do some PT. With this other  injury, you may not be able to wait  because it's going to create muscle  loss, bone loss, whatever, you know.

So,  I've got all this this running around.  So, I'm getting a lot of advice in order  to go to talk to the medical system with  from these already. So, is that  diagnostics?  You know, it's it's getting there,  right? It's certainly part of what you  would normally  Yeah. when you were talking to a  friendly cardiologist, orthopedic  surgeon, you know, across the fence you  have or a cocktail party, that's the  kind of thing you'd get towards.

So I  guess how far in dot's case are you  going down the path towards that kind of  here are the types of things that you  could happen before you actually  introduce them to the specialist or the  primary care versus  it sounds like you've got enough going  on here with with what we know from your  medical record that we want to get you  in front of all those those people.

Yeah, let let me answer that on two  levels. So just sort of right up front  uh today uh in its current release will  hand you off when that clinical  interaction needs to happen either to a  member of our own practice or a  recommended member that is high quality  that is taking new patients who accepts  your insurance in the local community  and I think we do that really quite well  and have continued to work as hard as we  possibly can to reduce every piece of  friction.

So I would say that the  commercial,  you know, consumer LLMs are now are  running ahead of that. They're not  running ahead of what  I mean I I've had open ARGBT and and  Provic Claude tell me specifically,  okay, you've had this condition, you  need to get this fixed using this kind  of  Oh, no, no. I I I I No, I agree with  you.

This is sort of uh you know,  haven't tested all of those things sort  of within the last 24 hours and they're  they're moving so fast. No, I this is  why I said sort of that provocative  foundational statement is that I think  what's actually possible today. If we  remove the governors and guardrails from  even our own AI sort of built here in  San Francisco, we would find that you  know we could let it loose on any number  of problems and it could be if not  specifically diagnosing and ordering it  could take you you know 97% of the way  there. that that is we know and we're  going to get to this in our conversation  that that is at least today not

the safe  appropriate um and most effective way to  think about healthcare delivery. But the  the the the other level I wanted to  answer your prior question on which I  think is useful for you to understand  and and as a way to better know our  company. We really think of this sort of  our corporate corporate citizenry on two  levels here. There's what we've put into  DOT which I'm telling you about today  and we'll continuously update and then

we think of ourselves very much as a  massive stakeholder and influencer on  what future possibilities should and  could look like. Um and there we've  we've sort of been public about this.  We've partnered uh over the last year  with you know one of the leading  frontier labs um you know in the world  on how to do safe AI treatment of care  and there is a study that we are uh  working on with them actually several  studies now uh that some of which have  already been published some of which is  still to be published that basically  measures the efficacy of these tools in  doing exactly what you're describing um  however getting to a place where an AI  can appropriately diagnose or  differentially diagnose your sinusitis  is going to be a win but not sufficient  for where healthcare delivery needs to  go. Right? It doesn't actually lead to  the activation against that problem.  Meaning like okay now let's go uh  through these therapies or recommended

lifestyle changes.  It also isn't particularly accountable  or responsible to your overall health  care picture. thinking about how much  it's going to cost or what's going to be  covered or what are the next steps. And  it doesn't incorporate the whole person  care element of this. And if I can, I  just want to pause because I skipped  over this part, but I think you know  your your audience tends to be pretty  sophisticated on this stuff.

So I want  them to sort of start to build the whole  picture in their mind.  We have the ability to train and deliver  and be intelligent on all of the topics  one would expect of a modern AI company  on the delivery of care and that's great  but in order to actually solve the  healthcare conundrum in the United  States you're going to need a lot more  than that.

So the other things that we  bring to the party are you know that  connected EMR that connects to over 70%  of practicing physicians in the country  where we can do push pull on records.  So, it's not just about what you supply  to us or you tying in your Apple Health  record or whatever, which uh at best is  going to be a very thin slice of your  overall health experience.

We also merge  in the entire financial experience. So,  what have you spent in your claims? What  does your claims history tell us about  where you've been? What does your  pharmacy benefit manager data tell you  about where you've been and what you've  experienced? And then of course  critically what is the actual overall  wrapper of what your plan design allows  you to do and not do.

And unfortunately  on the cost side this is where people  find themselves you know hitting the  rocks where they will think that they  found the perfect treatment or the  perfect medication only to find out that  it's actually not covered by their plan  or that it's covered but at enormous  personal expense. So in order to really  address the whole problem, you've got to  merge all of that information together.

And this is something that um we are  already doing and we think will be um  you know possible for for other AI  companies to work on but not necessarily  out of the box in the way that it is for  included.  Okay. Um  I get that and I think that that is in  itself you know a tremendous there there  are a couple of tremendous leaps.

Uh the  first one is that a forgetting included  for a moment a random person can take  their diagnostics, their scans, their  labs, can get them online and can feed  them either via the LLMs doing it  themselves or just by them copying and  pasting, you know, can feed their  reports into it and get a lot of  information back that really could only  been got from a clinical professional or  doctor, you know.

Yeah.  Three year two years two years ago. Um,  totally.  And you and you you get much smarter and  you know, as I said, I've been going for  a bunch of health stuff and I've got  incredibly smart about some of this  stuff very quickly, you [clears throat]  know, and then you do worry that  sometimes you're the road run.

No, it's  the coyote running off the cliff chasing  the road runner and, you know, you think  you're doing really well till uh you  realize you don't have years of medical  practice to to to fall off on. But no,  there's no question that many many  patients are getting very smart about  this and uh are really diving in.

You  hear these stories about people whose  kids have whatever weird condition  couldn't find out what it was and you  know they put it in chat GPT and it  spits out the answer where 27 doctors  didn't get given to them. Yep.  You have that whole sort of movement  right. Right. Then  and that's a huge win.  It's a huge win. Right.

The second thing  is what you're doing and most people  don't have yet and uh you know I think  we both can continue to poke the rest of  the health care system and plans and  others to get people there which is yeah  it's all this stuff that you know you  know about you from the admin side the  financial side the clinical side and  then you haven't even started chucking  in putting in things like the current  monitoring and what's in your Apple  health record the rest of it but  certainly what's in your my chart or  whatever it is  um where there's a ton of things that  are going on that probably haven't been  picked up or if they have been picked up  haven't been explained clearly and  properly or for whatever reason people  are in a kind of a a mixed state and  there should be much more clarity coming  out of these

these AI tools and a tool  like do I'm sure does that to get  somebody to the right place but also to  help prep them to get to that place and  to help on the other side  yeah y  the person who they're seeing as to  what's coming so can you talk a little  bit about how you see that part the more

informed AI the moreformed formed member  and the more informed clinician working  in the future.  Um, yeah, it's a it's a good push and uh  I know you know this, but again to make  sure that we're all operating on the  same wavelength, these things for as  sort of magical and as powerful as they  already feel, they still are only  training on largely the open internet  plus a few proprietary data sources that  they've purchased.

And a lot of what  needs to happen when you know you go  through the rotating door at the front  of a hospital or clinic and you enter  the sort of exam room and then you've  got a bunch of decisions to make and  steps to take afterwards. That workflow  is actually hidden from or opaque to the  AI.

And why is that important? If you're  actually trying to advise on treatment  decision support and build consensus  among a provider, a broad care team, the  member uh perhaps the member's payer, um  you actually need to have the ability to  understand what's going to happen next.  That sort of domain knowledge about  where that patient is likely going to  need to go or or you know uh etc.

Um,  and if if you if if people don't  understand what I'm talking about, like  go test the AI on exactly the experience  of a patient sort of post-operatively on  picket favorite condition and what is  the recovery room going to look like and  what's going to be build and who's, you  know, what is the anesthesia contract at  this hospital and what's going to be on  the formulary for your pharmacy.

It's  going to quickly tell you that those  things are important, but it's going to  have no ability to actually parse them  and make them available to you. and and  that just is going to take a domain  specific  uh um you know uh company to really to  to push through those and build those  workflows and make sure that we're all  operating on the same page and that we  have uh you know a shared understanding  and knowledge about what needs to  happen.

Um I'm very hopeful about that  not because I see it working already  with a lot of room to grow and and sort  of do more work. Um ultimately though,  and I think this sort of gets into the  big part of the conversation that I want  to make sure we cover,  we have to do that in a way that  actually um uh addresses the fact that  all of this information that members are  are sort of interacting with these AI  systems  has to be built around a a privacy  notion that wasn't considered in HIPPA.

has to be built around a safety uh you  know uh set of standards that no  malpractice laws really consider that no  compliance laws today really consider.  Um you have to think about these a AI  models as like a new version of a health  system that have um really different  standards around personalization,  privacy and safety.

um because because  while we will I think all uh be  delighted by the magic of the access and  frankly the low marginal cost for that  access and these are good things like  the examples you've given the ones I'm  giving to these are wins for society and  humanity but they come with them massive  risks they come with them risks on  safety they come risks of privacy they  come with risks of bias they have come  they comes uh you know come with risks  of of sort of um uh malicious ious  intent and manipulation.

And you know,  I'd love to tick through a few of those  examples today if we have time because I  think this is where the industry and  here I mean the people who are building  these things, me and my colleagues  certainly, but also every other company  that's out there as real big  stakeholders in where this goes from  here.  So before we get there, let's just so  now I am a clinician working with Amy  Perrick or one of your your your team  and I've got a member who's come to me  and they've been using the AI.

How much  am I getting of that conversation sort  of shuffled through to me so that I can  see what's happened to them and where  they've been asking before they arrive  in my tele health.  Oh, you get all of that. Yeah. No,  thanks for asking. So Matt, you know,  the fundamental architecture of our  company is that, you know, today you've  got um, you know, in the past I've  talked about these like two places in  healthcare and we need a third place.

So  you've got the your health insurer who  could sort of pays for the bills, exists  in the suburbs of town and sort of a  windowless building and just in the is  in the business of of paying claims. And  then you've got the health system which  often is in the middle of town and has  no idea how much things are going to  cost.

And they have a big system, they  call it the MR. These guys have a big  system. they call it, you know, TPA,  administration, claims processing,  whatever you want to call it. We need to  merge those two things together because  to your to your setup, the the provider  needs to understand when they see  Matthew that all the things that Matthew  has already said that are relevant on  history get incorporated into the  discussion that you're going to have.

Um, I don't know if you remember, but at  the outset I was talking about how  people are having these extraordinarily  long and detailed conversations with  DOT. And part of what's powerful about  that is that you're able to collect  history that to the member may have  seemed inconsequential.  Like they didn't they don't connect it  to their symptoms.

They don't connect it  to anything that matters in their  medical life, but in fact is hugely  consequential. Um, and and this is sort  of this shared conversation where if you  think of DOT as another member of the  care team with your human provider with  all the support services that we already  offer today, then you're actually  developing that whole picture and  everybody else is contextually aware.

It's not sitting in these two isolated  systems with the poor member trying to  merge it together.  So you've got, I assume, a summary of  that chat or that conversation in front  of the clinician. We [clears throat] can  start here talking about safety and all  the liability and all the stuff you want  to talk about and privacy, right?  You've got a self-contained universe  there where that goes from the that goes  from the member chat with dot through to  some summary so that we'll help advance,

you know, and inform the clinician as to  what's going on when Matthew or whomever  shows up in in their virtual exam room.  Um, they're using that. I assume I I  don't know, but I assume given that that  that you guys are also using some kind  of scribing summary. I think I should  have had this conversation. I've just  forgotten, but I'm an old man. Um, you  know, summarization to to develop the  record and you're building the record,  but you're building the record as you  go, but as you said, you're also raising  stuff that presumably is important to  the clinician. So, that all sounds great  and wonderful.

Are you concerned about how included  health is managing that process or are  you concerned about how everybody else  is managing that process? You're  concerned.  I'm concerned about I'm concerned about  both.  Yeah.  And I and I and I and I'm and I'm ready  to update you uh today on things that I  think we have started to figure out and  taken appropriate steps on as well as  some areas which we know are important  that we still need to figure out  ourselves.

So, so let's let's hold for one second.  Right. this week or the last six, seven  day, I can't even keep count anymore. It  was last seven days or eight days. We've  had uh both a lot of back and forth. The  fellow who left OpenAI to go because he  thought it was safer and decided it  wasn't.

Dario Amodi has uh written a  4,000word piece about how we need to get  external people into anthropic and  others how everyone should work together  not only nationally of the frontier labs  but also you know let's get the Chinese  on board because this thing could kill  us all  this back and forth right about and  Trump says it's all fine which almost  certainly means it's not [laughter]  right so so  in the context of that right and I know  that people are worried about AI systems  giving bad actors the ability to both,  you know, do the hugging face type  attack, but also to to to create  pathogens and who knows what. In the  context of all that, what do you think  the steps are that that let's stop what  are the concerns that you have? And then  we'll talk about the steps do you think  you and others can take, but what are  the main concerns you have?  Yeah. So um I I want to I want to say  this sentence first before the next you

know 20 sentences follow but I am an AI  optimist in general. I see these  technologies as having transformatively  positive properties uh for humanity and  specifically within the healthcare  domain. I think that the the chances uh  and likelihood of tremendous good  outweigh the opposite. And yet the risks  are asymmetric and their potential  damage.

And that's why I think that all  of us who are building these things um  have to be incredibly  uh responsible for  trying to examine as best we can and  safeguard against, you know, current  questions and future questions as we  design these things. And I I just I  guess I would say I would worry I do  worry when I'm in conversations with  peer companies today and even more so  with the buyers of these solutions how  few questions people are actually asking  and if they sort of understood the risks  and I'm going to get to a few of them um  uh they they probably would think  differently. So um you ask what I think  the problems are to be solved. um you  know in no particular order um I think  the biggest or well I just say the uh  sort of most pervasive one already based  on how these things have been designed  broadly this one is not true at included  health is that people usually for

reasons of speed or cost or both have  strapped themselves on to one of the  foundation models without negotiating  who owns the data and how the data  actually will be managed.  Uh because the least expensive way to  obtain a foundation model to power  whatever you're working on is to  actually have an to to allow that  foundation model to train on everything  you're telling it.

That's a huge problem  for healthcare. It probably violates uh  federal law or it will  So let's just be clear. You're talking  about I'm a health care company of some  flavor. I want to use AI and whatever  I'm doing, I will happily feed my and my  patients data and my process into the  foundational model and then basically  the foundational model has got it.

You got it.  Train on it. And by the way, it's  training on everybody else's as well.  That's right. This is bad because  this is bad because when you put in  personally identifiable human  information into these training models,  these training models are absolutely  open and will use that to train on any  number of other things and  characteristics that it would like to  know about and associate with those  human beings.

And um even if you're  doing that on an anonymized basis,  you're running the risk of actually  training that data set in a way that can  be undone. And there are already public  examples of where this has been happen.  Basically, people have deanonymized data  or when you're uploading what like an  unnamed data but is onetoone humanbased  uh it's easy to then actually lock that  into that human's profile forever and  ever. Amen.

Because once it's sort of  inside of the training data set, it's  very hard if not perfectly impossible to  pull it out. And I'll give just give you  the most obvious example of this. And I  I I sort of tell people I'm I'm a lot of  fun at like uh cocktail parties, but  this is the one I tell people never to  do.

It's like people are uploading their  personal  uh genomes sequencing data directly into  these consumer grade AIs. You know, you  can't change your your DNA, at least not  today. Um and so what you're doing, even  if you don't have a name on that report,  is you are telling that model everything  about yourself.  uh that is uniquely you and um this is a  this is a problem for how that AI could  in the future price you for life  insurance or you know likelihood to be a  good mate or parent or whatever.

Um so I  I worry about that because there's this  there's just been this one-way flow  because it's been the economically  easiest path to put data uh directly  into these uh frontier models. Now at  included uh and this is the model that  we're I'm about to sort of publish an  open letter on this because we we want  to make our approach sort of publicly  visible.

Hopefully it's a template for  others to use but also comment on and  make us uh better too. Like this this  needs to be a multi-company approach.  But you know we've built it in such a  way that um not only do we anonymize  none of the data can be retained where  we use external models. All the dot uh  prompt engineering uh stays on our side  of the house.

All of our client data  exists in private cloud and is  controllable exclusively by those  clients and the members that that use  them. Um these are really really  important controls for how data can  flow. So, so the first one I would just  say broadly is the topic of privacy and  where where you're going to see us go on  the whole privacy by design journey is  we believe that the member this is not  yet live in the product but we believe  that the member should actually be able  to control all of that data down to the  individual level which means that you  know ultimately we'd like to have the  ability for the member to actually  control uh you

know what persists in  their their personal record and I think  that's going to be a really really big  topic  before you leave that one  I kind of get  I think uh from an optics standpoint and  probably from a you know a user control  standpoint what you've just laid out and  proposed is is you know the most  efficient and clean way of doing it but  there are a couple of things going on.

one is as you said if if the answer is  oh well I want I'm getting this now when  I'm asked uh how long claude can look at  my record from UCSF and is it a day is  it a week is it a year the most it gives  me is a year at the moment I  I'm not sure I'm that worried about cla  I mean maybe I should be but I'm not  sure I'm that worried about what Claude  is reading from my UCF record it's going  to know a lot about me for sure um but  that's pretty helpful it's spilling back  very useful stuff to me as we discussed  earlier and I'm not absolutely certain  that I wanted to to switch that off. So  if you are  well I don't I don't think you want to I  don't I get that example and and I I if  if if we could I'm going to abstract  away from anthropic and cloud  specifically because I I don't actually  know what what all they do.  I did pick the model that you're not in  a relationship with by the way. Well,  no, no, no. We we we we work with them  too on certain stuff, but but but I

wanna I want to sort of like say that  the thing I'm pointing to is not  probably the use case you have in mind.  Now, if that if you in part if if you in  coupling your electronic medical record  with claude had express  uses of that data. So, not only could it  not retain data that is private to you,  it couldn't even train and abstract  certain concepts from your medical  record, which I which I doubt that they  I don't know, but I doubt that they gave  that to you.

My guess is that they are  doing that because that's a big part.  I'm sure they are. And I'm actually not  sure that's a bad thing. It gives them  Well, well, listen, I think I think  there is um I I think you can have your  cake and eat it too, I guess, is my  point. you can have all of that insight  and surveillance and uh ability to take  next steps on your health which is  presumably what you cared about when you  partnered coupled with it and the  ability to retain your sovereignty over  your own data.

And I think you know I  started a reputation and privacy company  before this. We spent a lot of time on  this topic that that you know all of us  as humans are willing to give up our  privacy in exchange for certain things  like you know we're willing to have data  used to advertise to us in order to get  free services.

That was the starting  concept behind Google as a search  engine. But but this is really different  because your health data is immutable.  It is unchangeable and it can be used to  to do a lot of things in the future. I  mean, frankly, it could be used to do a  lot of things today that you may not  really like or be fully aware of.

Um,  and it's not clear that law and  technology security has sort of caught  up with that use case. So, my cake and  eat it too moment is why couldn't you,  you know, sort of glean all of that  information, have the benefit all of all  that self-standing and discovery and  access, and have the ability to say,  "Okay, great.

when I leave this session  or when I when I terminate my membership  with this company, I want that data out  of here. Like I think we should build  that. I think that that's  I think that's quite exciting. I'm I'm  just wondering if that if everybody did  that, [snorts] would the model not get  us, you know, would would the model  become stupider because it lost that  data and lost those and didn't know  anymore.

I mean so that I  because  what remember what we were saying about  10 minutes ago was that right now models  most a lot of stuff goes on in the world  of healthcare which is germanine the  patient experience and physician  clinician experience but doesn't get c  isn't captured anywhere and someone's  got to put that into the flow which will  make the help the medical AI better like  dot you know better than than the  generic ones.

So I'm I'm I'm just uh you  know I I don't know enough to understand  whether you know does it need to know  what my imaging studies were from 2014  to be to be more intelligent than this.  I suspect it needs to  I think there's a bunch of data that  it's already getting that um has certain  permissions and and it can train off of  uh that that the provider system itself  is using to ensure private you know  compliance and safety etc.

Um, and I  guess what I'm saying is the all of us  who are sort of these next generation  health systems, if you will, have an  obligation to actually think on those  terms and think about the what the power  of when that data sort of is beyond our  reach. But listen, I'm like, we've only  gotten through one of these things and  and I want to make sure I call out a  couple of other  well because there has to be a unified  framework, right? So, so another one is  we know again because these things train  on on the open internet uh and because  they are highly uh biased by the data

sets that they're training on that there  is actually bias against populations  that are served. Um and and I'll give  you a couple of examples that have  already been discussed but you can  imagine these things getting deeply  amplified. You know, we know, for  example, when we're looking at the  prevalence of disease and we're using  population health algorithms to say  those who are the highest spenders need  the most uh intensive healthcare  services that there's a problem there  that there are whole populations that  are under reppresented in those data

sets because they're not spending as  much because they don't have as money as  much money to spend. And that's a  problem. Or a different example of that  is uh again sort of this is all  published. This isn't me sort of pulling  a a case study from within our company  that when you look at sort of automated  and semi-automated scans of dermatology,  uh they're largely trained on lighter  skin models and miss things in darker  skin models.

Now, this is all  changeable, but you have to be able to  you have to be able to sort of like look  at that and make sure that when you're  building uh your agents and your AIS  that you're expressly trying to lean  against any bias that comes into it. Of  course, the sort of most scary versions  of this because it does train on the  open internet is it will pull in sort of  uh unproven and questionable medical  approaches uh but deliver it in a  plausible narrative to you that makes  you feel good as the patient reading it.

It's like, oh, I should inject inject  myself with Ivormectin because it's  going to work even though it doesn't.  and you know uh but you could you could  be sort of led to believe you know by  the AI that that's true. So that's a  huge one. Uh and then the last thing I'm  going to say on broadly on the topic of  safety and and and I would sort of point  people who have time to read it to the  to the piece that we published with uh  the New England Journal and Catalyst  with some other researchers is our  approach to safety is is human in the  loop that over a certain level of  severity of any interaction with DOT  there's a human reading it. Um, and we  just, you know, that's more expensive to  us, but we think it's critically  important. Um, that's also how part of

how we train dot. We built sort of a a  clever way to do switching in the back  end so that when people are available on  shift, they can actually take a look at  these things as they're coming through  and making sure that we're covering 100%  of it. But that's how we've trained uh  our human in the loop systems because  there's a real risk of hallucination.  There's a real risk of of sort of  injury. um you know that the point

people again if they want to read uh  pretty major finding I don't know if you  saw this Matthew by the auditor in in  Ontario this is you know comes from  Canada that uh that a a shockingly high  percentage of the cases that they  reviewed where AI was taking ambient  scribing data from physicians and then  building care plans uh that you know the  medications were swapped that the amount  per medication was incorrect that  services that were being recommended  were not in fact recommended it was  hallucinating when people needed blood  tests. So these are these are these are  real concerns. The the problem is that  sort of the AI conversational style is  so seductive that we can easily believe  that these things are happening and so  we as again as companies and  stakeholders in this early movement have  to really commit to it.  Yeah. I think the  how the the question of how to deal with  hallucinations and the hallucinations  being generated  not only from text but also from from

audio such as voice uh and in the amate  describing that continues to be you know  something that I think people  are struggling with. Um  I would say that this is another case  where look we had tons of mistakes  before. It's not like this.  Yeah. No, for sure.  Tons of  the baseline is not you know the  baseline is not right.

Yeah.  But you know so I'm I'm optimistic about  that. Having said that we also have a  bunch of case law is about to start the  work like can you record just today it's  can you record me without my permission.  Uh there's who is entitled to the  document. There was a case today where  in Washington state where uh where where  someone was trying to get the ambient  scribe or or at least a transcript out  of the ambient scribe but it would the  law said it belonged to the provider.

The patient couldn't access it. Is the  patient allowed to record their own um  you know what happens if the patient's  recording and the uh and the other the  other uh the providers recording don't  agree? But you have now I mean I've been  doing this with my own medical records.  You know you have stuff in the medical  record that's wrong.

No easy way to  correct it, right? This has been a  problem. I think it kind of gets bumped  up because now we are recording  directly into the AI many things that  just didn't get captured at all before.  Yep.  So, I'm I'm with you on that. Clearly,  you know, we know that there are  mistakes and we know that AI don't agree  with each other.

I had a ridiculous case  today where I was trying to figure out  why my uh pin code on my computer  changed and as to whether  because the AI hacked in  well whether the AI had hacked it,  whether my daughter had deliberately  hacked it or whether there was some  probably that one.  Anyway, uh ignoring the answer I put I I  did it on Gemini, I did it on uh on  Claude and they completely disagree with  each other as [laughter] to what was  going on.

I don't know the back end of  women,  but they equally they're both equally  declarative and authoritative, right?  They were both they were both very  strong.  So, I think I think the issue I'm  pointing to here is not so much that  issues or problems or mistakes didn't  exist before. Obviously, you and I know  very well that they do.

What I think  that I worry about most is the  complacency that will settle over people  in just assuming that what they're  getting is actually superior to what a  physician was giving them historically.  because I think we all have perhaps  insufficient quantities of but we have  some amount of awareness and self-  advocacy when we go into the health  system that we need to make sure that  things are working out this the right  way when we are told by our friendly AI  certain things um you know we have to be  careful I I had this experience where I  was trying to sort of dose appropriately  Tylenol uh to uh you know to a kid who  can't yet take the sort of pill form of  Tylenol and Um, the AI massively  hallucinated on the math. Now, it was a  it would have been a stupid dose. It  would have had him like drinking two  bottles of it, and obviously I wasn't  going to do that. But had I done that,  it probably would have killed him. And  that that's an issue like you know it's

a it's an issue that you know we can  sort of laugh about but also there will  be a sort of sense of security and peace  and ease of use and efficiency when you  don't have that sort of like guardrail  built medical grade AI to say okay this  is actually we're talking about dosage  we need to make sure that we have a  human review this and we can we can get  somebody on the line within seconds.

So  the drug overdose one is a super  interesting one because don't forget  this is the uh centerpiece of Bob Wter's  not AI book but his digital book right  was the drug overdose in at UCSF  and um came out of you know epic and a  combination of the pharmacy and it was a  weird kid because he was a teenager or  whatever and that you know there was a  calculation that didn't get through very  similar to to what you just described  right could and in that case they did  give them the equivalent of the two  bottles of and killed that kill the  patient and everybody was at fault,  right? From the person who designed the  system all the pharmacist, the nurse,  the patient himself should have known  better, etc., etc., right? But but in  the end, it went it went all the way to  that massive overdose.

My sense is that, you know, we're going  to get more and more comfortable with  the AI telling us the answer. The AI is  probably going to hallucinate less and  less, but it's still going to be be it  guard rails.  Depends on how it's training.  Well, well, I guess there's two things.

There's training and there's like final  oversight and then you mentioned  these are the guards.  Exactly.  How do you think that will play out for  and and including Yeah. How you think  it's going to play out in the kind of  actual case of the Tylenol whatever the  drug it is.  Uh well um on this point you know I go  like most topics in business um and and  let's not forget these are businesses  we're talking about.

they're going to  operate against what their ultimate  incentive set is. So we we know for  example that um let's think sort of pre  uh transformer moment and we think about  all the original uh search and social  media sites for which we sort of  gathered information. We know that those  companies performed better on revenue  the more we they were reinforcing what  we already wanted to believe and and do.

And that was true because the  advertising worked and we just sort of  would spend more time on the websites.  Um I'm I'm afraid the same will be true  with this consumer grade models because  people will be looking for confirmation  of the things that they already believe  and that's just human nature. And so uh  I don't think it will be without picking  on any of them individually.

I just  don't think it's going to be in their  natural incentive set to say nope  actually like we're going to inject  expertise and evidence and truth because  you know uh setting aside the whole  political part of that conversation  which has been nasty the last few years  on the role of science. I just don't  think it's going to be in their business  incentive set uh to say we need to we  need to pause this conversation.

Um  however companies like ours at included  health but also I imagine many of our  our fellow travelers on this road are  going to say our incentive set is to  deliver high quality care. We're  measured against those outcomes. We are  we are uh also evaluated on whether  members like and trust us. Um but it's  the it's the you know it's the conjoint  of those two things where we have to  actually be able to deliver the outcomes  too.

So um the the health systems both  current and and future state are going  to be evaluated more like more on the on  the safety and quality. So I I'd say  just to to wrap this point um there  seems to be a little bit of back and  forth about about this and how you deal  with this and your uh uh neighbor friend  and fellow CEO Jeff Tagy over at  Doximity has like put together a an  advisory board of you know the the wise  on down  right  I'm a little confused and concerned  about how do you both put the guardrails  in when you've got an Yeah.

And you were  talking about human in the loop for me  included. You know there's only so much  people can read and  yeah sure  obviously the AI can spit out way can  deal with you can put in guardrails we  hope they and then every session is  individual  it's not I I have had this conversation  also back in the day right Mayo Clinic  wrote a learned term for both the  clinical view and then for the consumer  view about diabetes whatever the hell it  was by their committee and that was it  and it got stamped and now the AI is  spitting a new one out more and more  individual every time. So, can this  work? Can we eliminate the  hallucinations, the dangerous stuff, the  the telling you what you want to hear um 

from AI? Can we put those guardrails in  the way you're talking about?  I I I know that we can absolutely put  the safety guard rails in because we've  already done it and we've already sort  of flagged and bounced a whole bunch of  safety incidents. Now, our approach so  far is quite human intensive and so that  is true and we're okay with that. that's

our legacy and we're sort of proud of  the the the track record we have on  safety. Some of the other topics I  raised for you I think are going to take  even more work. Um but but what's what's  just so critical sort of like my call to  action here is that those of us who are  building these things and are already  operating on the edge of the envelope  need to get together to work on the  principles of what design looks like.

um  because because like I said the existing  sort of law and regulation doesn't  really contemplate a lot of these use  cases and what we will have to do by law  and what we should do are different and  um and uh you know law ultimately  catches up with ethics but but not as  fast as any of us would like. And so,  uh, this is just sort of my my my plea  is to say that we're going to start to  organize, uh, a bunch of people who are  like-minded to say what are the  principles that we can all agree to and  then hopefully show a technical 

blueprint so people don't have to invent  these things on their own on how you  actually do it. No, I mean that sounds  very sensible and we've gone, you know,  obviously the the current administration  has a very different view to where the  the previous administration was going  and who knows what the hell will it be  like in a few weeks after the midterms  and then a few years after if there's a  change in administration. Um but you  know it's a long time [laughter] for for  that to catch up. Uh right now we have

this sort of early  intention to cooperate amongst the big  frontier models. I don't think we call  it that. how how how would how would you  say that you know what you're talking  about in your call to action is  reverberating amongst you know your your  your fellow uh leading a  so yeah so the people I talked to and  I'm sort of lucky enough to be here in  San Francisco and so I'm close to a  bunch of the companies that that are  doing this work I think they're not only  open to it they also sense this and some  of them are at sort of different levels  of their journey on on the ability to  deliver against it

but I think there's  an openness to the conversation and a  collaboration that is really exciting um  we want uh we want to sort of put  together a group that um you know has a  clearer point of view that can help  educate and articulate that point of  view to other people and and we're just  starting uh the work to put that  together. But this is the thing that I  wanted to bring to you today because I  think on this week where we're having  this sort of like massive national and  global questioning around the safety of

AI, we have to look directly to the  lives of the people around us that we're  charged to take care of and make sure  that we're doing all that we can in our  specific corner of the neighborhood to  think through the risks of these things.  And again, the the risks pale in  comparison to the benefits. I mean,  these are we've already seen it.

It's  going to be huge. Um, and I'm and I'm,  you know, personally a user. I would  recommend everybody use it, but I think  that, uh, I think doing this the right  way is going to be be meaningful to the  future of our country.  Fantastic. Well, uh, I look forward to,  you know, hearing relatively soon, I  hope, you know, what's going to happen  out of the out of the groups that you're  initiating.

I think there's going to be,  you know, more national conversation  about this. Clearly, we need to be  paying very very close attention  for sure. both in healthare and outside  of healthare. You know, we've heard a  lot obviously over the last last months  about whether I don't know whether you  can slow down. I do worry and I think  you know not that I'm a big biggest fan  of the Scott Bessence of the world but  when you you know the Chinese yes there  are some issues in China but we are this  is also not just a healthcare or not  just a consumer issue it's a national

security issue and clearly you know the  we we've all seen the movies about the  bad things that come out of this there  is a lot of great stuff that can come  out of of AI and you know there's some  really optimistic books and there's the  stuff about abundance and there's  clearly a lot that can be done in  healthcare not only in drug discovery  but in fixing the way the healthcare is  delivered and you know you're working  very hard on that. So you know we have  but we have to get it right and it's  obviously something that we all have to  focus on. So I look forward to hearing  back from you Owen soon about how you're

doing that.  We'll do I've been talking with Owen  Trip CEO of included health and we've  got deep into the world of AI so we'll  uh we'll talk more about this soon.  Thanks for your time.