Title: Owen Tripp, Included Health
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ixjaPaOXxE8
Language: en
Duration: 00:44:14
Upload Date: Jun 3, 2025

Transcription:

[Music] It's Matthew Halt, another TACV spotlight. And here I have Owen Trip, the CEO of Included Health. Those you with very very long memories might remember it was called Grand Rounds once upon a time, but but that was uh several several years and a few acquisitions ago. Owen, great to see you again. Uh thanks for coming on TCB. Uh I let's start with the real basics. Um you are as I might have you know hinted by then and and I've obviously talked with with you and and and Amy and other colleagues

over the years. You are at a bit of a different company now than you were when you started. Um starting with the idea of being a second opinions company and now basically being an all-inclusive care company. Um what does that mean? What does it if you tried you know you're you're a you're you're a cocktail party somebody and they say included the health. What the hell does that do? What's the answer? Yeah, Included Health is an all-in-one personalized healthcare company. And we

treat mind, body, and wallet. And we think, and I know in our conversation today, we're going to get to why all those things not only are connected to each other, but cannot be cleaved out because when we try to separate them, we do bad things. But I I do want to just mention one thing. Grand Rounds, you're right. We don't call ourselves Grand Rounds anymore, but it is indeed the same company. It's both the same company in terms of the uh you know amendment and certification and and and uh charter

with which we started Grand Rounds. But but even more importantly the idea of Grand Rounds was when you get people to higher quality care two good things happen. One is they get better and I think at a basic patient level we can get excited about that. But two, and most critically and now proven, you save the system overall money simply by getting to the right answer faster. And you're right, expert medical opinions was our first product. We've now added on a whole bunch of other things. We'll

talk through that here, but really it's the same governing idea that we launched the company with. We want to get people to higher quality care. We want to do that faster with more convenience, more personalization, and we know those two good things will happen. Yeah. And also, let's point out, it's also you're the same person. It's many of the same people have been there for many years, isn't it? Rusty and others have been around the company for a long time. It's not like you uh it's not like you

change, you know, you pivoted massively. You just come on. So, let's talk about that. I I'm you know there was a there's a category which you don't like the term uh navigation that other fellow client the term navigation but it's kind of it's stuck because we do such a poor job in general in American healthcare of helping people figure out where they should be going who they should be seeing who the best providers are what the plan they should be on is right so um what are the component parts that you

have and I assume I don't if you're done yet but that you need so that somebody has a problem in healthcare of whatever description and they call a number, get online, do a chat and they end up with included health because their employer has a deal with you. What are the services and the products they're getting? Yeah. So, they are going to get access to the world's finest primary care. These are uh people who are full employees of our company. Uh you can schedule with them uh well in advance.

They will run comprehensive personalized services. We'll bring care in home if we need to do that. I hope we'll talk about that more today. Um they'll run all the labs, the tests, and do the follow-up in a way that uh probably redefineses the level of experience that members can get. So that's a new service, but it also connects to this whole idea of navigation. We help people with that wallet part of their care. So how much should you expect to pay? What are your benefits going to cover? Who's in

network? Who's not in network? Are they high quality? Are they not high quality? That sort of Byzantine, where do I go next part of health care? And then of course, we wrap it with terrific mental health services. We're one of the largest behavioral health practices in the country. We wrap our primary care and our specialty care services with terrific behavioral health. Those are sort of the building blocks. There's a lot more we could say about those services, but you're absolutely right,

Matthew. I don't like the term navigation one. I think it's one of many industry terms that we throw at people that has very little meaning when all they're trying to do is just feel a little bit better every day and spend a little bit less. But two, and more importantly, it's a byproduct of a broken system where you have providers sitting over here and you have insurers sitting over here and you have the poor little member in the middle. And yeah, I'm allergic to any redefinitions of

that category that are basically the same thing. I don't like wayfinding. I don't like advocacy. I don't like let's run them through the rat maze. Uh none of this is actually a real solution until you get down to the business of taking care of the member and actually resolving their problem. So you obviously over the years you have acquired companies notably Doctors on Demand was the big merger on want to say seven 2021 2021 we bought Dr. No, I think it was pre- pandemic but post pandemic,

right? And then included health as well. But but I mean um uh the the question I I guess is is twofold. So one is how much primary care plus all the surrounding stuff and guidance you can do um virtually and how much you you you mentioned sort of doing stuff in the home as well but you know how much do you think of that can be done virtually is being done virtually in your organization. And the second question is um when you have an organization like included health that becomes part of the employer based

care landscape uh what happens to those other doctors and hospitals that that that those employees or those consumers or those members we're dealing with. So what do you do and then what do you do regarding those other other players who've been around and about? Yeah. Well, you know it's interesting. I would probably reorder those questions. Okay. So the so part of the reason why virtual primary care has really taken off not just for us but others is because there is a deep deep uh chasm now between the primary

care experience that you and I might have grown up with and what's actually available today. I mean, the reality of the situation long before virtual entered the picture was that independent primary care practices were being gobbled up by health systems that just saw them as referral engines for all of their uh high-cost uh high margin procedural work. That's just a reality. Uh they were gobbling. But there was a similarly uh large uh consumer of those service, you know, of those um practices

that had a similar level of appetite and those were the insurers, right? they were buying them to be part of these integrated networks and certainly we've all been following the news of Optim and others who have done that. Um that did not leave space for the impeccably well-trained, caring, uh independent-minded, forward-leaning primary care provider who wanted to continue to practice the way that they had with all the new modern tools to deliver more scalable patient care. We have become the destination for those

people. So, I just wanted to mention upfront that that's a bit an industry shift. Now, more importantly, virtual primary care does a few things that traditional primary care cannot. One, it connects instantaneously to all of the other services that you need to drive true whole person care. Here, of course, I'm talking about specialty referrals, in-house specialty clinics. We run our own virtual specialty clinic. Now, as you know, it also can help you get access to primary care. um primary care in the community

if you need to uh to additional pharmacy that is actually covered by the formulary that's going to be affordable, effective, and accessible. It wraps with behavioral health as I just mentioned a minute ago. But maybe even more than anything else, it sits on top of a deep platform level understanding of what your benefits are. So when have we ever seen a primary care doctor that in recommending a service or a next step for us actually understood how much that service was going to cost? whether it

was covered under your plan, where to go for it, who to talk to, what you might need to prescertify, and indeed to pres-certify on your behalf as the patient. Now, that's an incredible step forward to what's possible inside of that virtual envelope. And that doesn't even really get to the fact that we don't have accessibility in most of the country. So if we look at how our practice has scaled, yes we offer it in the highdensity urban and and geographically satur you know AMC geographically saturated areas but the

parts of the country that get me most motivated and inspired is where you're seeing waiting lists for primary care that uh stretch into the months where we can turn around and offer that primary care capacity within days and hours. Um, and that's really what this country needs and I think that's why you're seeing this kind of primary care take off and I don't think the horse is going to go back in the barn on that one. So say then answer these the other part which is so um I am a you know I'm an

employee at Walmart or whomever one of and included health shows up and now I have uh now I have the option of coming to you as my primary care. It's my first call as a primary care. um what do I if I need something physical um rather than virtual what are my options with you and then what is your relationship if if any with the you know let's say I had a primary care relationship with which is you know only the case I think about half for half Americans now but let's say I had a primary care relationship with somebody

in a health system or an independent doctor what what what happens about that have you taken that over completely or you know what what what how how does included work with the sort the physical old system. Yeah. Well, it's actually I mean when you talk about commercial insurance or working Americans and their families, which is, as you know, where our company is most focused today, um it's it's less than 25% of uh members actually have an active true primary care relationship. So, uh if you take

the seniors out of the consideration, you just don't have those relationships. And even within that 22% um you're going to find that some doctors that people refer to as their primary care doctors are in fact uh emergency room doctors, internal medicine doctors who practice in hospital settings and aren't really primary care doctors. Um so uh what can we do and what can we not do? And this has been a really interesting learning experience. You mentioned when we acquired Dr. on demand in 2021 that

transaction actually was not about their robust urgent care franchise. Although obviously in those co moments we were all relying on great services like doctor on demand. In fact, it was really about what they were starting to do in terms of laying down tracks in primary care and we've developed together since then. So the US preventative task force concluded that about 75% of what a great wellness or preventative visit uh needed could be done in home and that was at the time that we did that deal. Since

then we we think that number is actually closer to 90 or 95%. Yes, things have to happen that require a different level of uh experience and connection than just what you and I are doing over video right now. But here again, we've made major investments. We send kits to people's home that allow them to wirelessly connect or analog connect to devices that measure their weight, to measure their blood pressure, that check their ears, etc. And beyond that, when somebody truly requires in-person local care, we can set that

appointment on their behalf, transition their medical record with a order that calls for specifically what we need them to be checked out for. So instead of wandering into an urgent care and having a whole panel of tests, we can be prescriptive as to what we expect with same day results coming back to our primary care people to work in. Now, if somebody has a great local primary care doctor and they're getting great continuous care, terrific. That's that's a that is a luxury in this modern

American life and we do not want to disrupt that. But as I just pointed out to you, that's actually the small minority of people and getting smaller based on provider availability and patient awareness. So really, we're trying to fill the gap where people don't actually have that kind of care. So um and just to push a little bit more on that, what share of the visits coming in, the video visits require you know some level of physical touching and I I say this because a while back I had a

back incident and I was flawed by the ability of some two very smart specialists. Well, if they were very smart, maybe they're average specialists. But you thought two two medical specialists who've been to medical school and done residency and fellowships and makes it reminds me of the old joke that what do they call the guy that graduates at the bottom of medical school? Doctor of God. We have to be careful. As Vinard Kirsty used to say, you know, half the doctors are below average, right? Right. But anyway, in but

literally in this office by me walking up and down behind me and the sign of the curtain behind me, they were able to diagnose, you know, okay, where's the pain? touch it blah blah blah you know what was wrong with my back which was completely accurately without you know which was I mean and I was saying wow so you don't you know a lot of the stuff that happens you can probably imagine doesn't need a physical exam but obviously you need blood drawn for lab tests you know you do need occasionally

listen to someone's stethoscope maybe the blood pressure cuff remote is good but maybe talk about where that limit is yeah um well the you you you started with the question of how often do we have to refer to And I'm going to take for the purposes of this question, I'm going to take out things like routine labs where we're frequently either sending a kit to people's home or asking them to go out to a quest or labore. Um, so I I know the answer to this question because we've studied it consistently. It it it

is has been as high in any reporting period as 8% and it averages 3 to 5%. Oh wow. So it's it's almost nothing. Yeah. Now, now, but in fairness to the data, that tells you maybe that those needs are being met purely through virtual, but it also might tell you something about who uses virtual today and where we where we can get that care. But just to play with your example for a half second, it's great that just from behind the curtain, somebody was listening to a few words and they ultimately felt like they

diagnosed you. But what most people I know that do the you know multitude of back care cases in this country have told me is that often times when it's chronic and recurrent it needs to undergo some level of imaging and even there that primary care is referring out and that's exactly the same kind of referral and order that we would put in. We would review it uh virtually and give you results uh likely faster than you would get in today's primary care delivery. Although that's a completely

separate conversation we want to get into now about how accurate imaging is and whether imaging lines up with pain and whether pain lines up with correct or I think the answer I mean unfortunately the answer to that question is it doesn't but you have to have some benchmark and baseline to to start the conversation. Yeah. And I think one of in that case, one of the doctors had the images because he was in the the network of the of the hospital would had it done and the other one didn't and I sent him screenshots from

the other one which I'm not sure. But I'll I'll give you a really cool one and and I experienced this personally. So I've had I've had my prim primary care with uh my primary care doctor with included health um you know forever now and I can see that person at hours that really work for me. But she actually picked up that I had had imaging done somewhere else and was able to see it. And this was not something that we had actually initiated through the primary care system. That's a pretty remarkable

thing. We now connect with 65% of all the EMRs and nearly 100% of all the hospital EMRs around the country. So we're actually seeing this data in real time. The dream of interoperability, which when you and I first met was really just a dream, is starting to take off. Yeah. No, and it seems to me there there's significant change on that. And there are a bunch of companies running around. I think you uh you hang out with Jonathan Bush now and again from Zeus, but there are a bunch of who who are who

are you know doing what we said was everyone complains about it now. But now they're arguing about who owns the data and who has rights to the data and who can access the data which is a very different argument than you know 5 8 10 years ago when it was like we can't get it and it's just not available which which I think you know which I think is is progress of a sort. But let let me talk to you about uh that data but also the the the the the data you've been working on for a long time. So I think

the first time I came to your office, this might have been 2012, 2013 whatever and I had a great talk about you know you looking at the specialty care marketplace and knowing a lot of data about the specialist and who was good and who was bad and um that problem of variation in care process variation in care quality and variation in outcomes has not gone away as well I'm aware um what is your current uh but obvious And and obviously you talk about wallet, right? There's and we'll get into this

in a second, but when you go to uh a new client and I I want and we'll ask you to get into the Kalpers situation in a minute. Um you're not saying we're going to come with this fantastic wonderful online career. It's going to be great. And by the way, it's going to cost you 25% more, right? That's not the argument you're making. A lot of this is around squeezing out poor care, variation, outcomes, etc. So what is the sort of and you've been for a long time. So what

was the original sort of data uh strategy and what are you doing now to try to figure that out? Yeah, I remember that conversation really well. That was our first sort of uh office in San Francisco. And um what I shared with you then was this insight that has been a a a pretty durable one actually through our expert medical opinion practice which at that point had been running for a couple of years. we were changing diagnosis and treatment about 67% of the time. And you know, on one level, you could say that's a great business. We

should just keep doing that because we can save patients money, make their lives better, uh, and save their company's money by getting it right. But it spoke to a much larger problem, a sort of frustrating one for me, which is that somewhere upstream of that patient getting an expert medical opinion, he or she was getting inappropriate or underinformed care by somebody else, which meant that the original specialist that was chosen for that task was not the right one. And there's a lot of

reasons why that could be the case. I mean, specialists are actually really subsp specialists in the way that the world works today, but they don't monitor their patient panels to determine subsp specialty. So, they often end up with the wrong people. Often times, those specialists can overprescribe. They're not very good at saying no to things that they shouldn't be doing, etc., etc., etc. And we could run a whole primer for your viewers to help them better understand how to talk to a specialist in the first place. But

at that same time, data was telling us an incredibly powerful story that we could use claims to actually predict where people were getting better outcomes by figuring out how often were they hospitalized after seeing certain specialists, what were the hospital born infection rates, how often were certain kinds of doctors referring to other kinds of doctors. These were incredible models that we were building in 2013. Frankly, and I can say this now, way ahead of anybody else talking about this stuff in, you know, first couple of

patents were written in the 20204 time frame to ingest data to make predictions based on quality. And what's cool is that now 10 years later, because we've had clients who have been using this for 10 years, getting better referrals, driving to highquality specialists is saving these companies tons of money. If I look at that cohort of ear now then early grand rounds now included health clients people who joined us in 2020 2014 2015 they have beat trend on average by three points which is really

remarkable part of that story is right yeah well I mean I I would have predicted that then I know it to be true now right um and in some ways that's why these companies all of us need to do this for enough time to actually prove out what we're saying, but my reasoning for that is yes, run by smart people. They made a bunch of other smart choices. It's not all us, but the fact that they invested early in an operating system or referrals and understanding quality at the individual physician

level versus sort of at the health system level has given them this major advantage and how they buy care on behalf of their people. So, uh, let's let's go to the the the the sort of the marquee, not the marquee, but the the maybe the marquee cl the new relationship you have with with Kalpers and Blue Shield. It's not that new. I I all of my clients are are marally fantastic. Only one of them I think I'm directly paying for the keros just done my taxes again. So, no, but uh but but but let's uh you know

that's a slight the arrangement is a little bit unusual. So, I don't just explain what that is, what you're doing, what Bluell doing, and who's at risk for what? Yeah. So, um, what we introduced, I'm I'm going to build into this a little bit, please. Right. What we what we introduced in January of 2022 and spent all of 2021 building was the product we call all-included care. So, you know, we've covered the fact that you we have this deep legacy in virtual care and we have this deep legacy in in

building navigation with a quality centered approach. Great. But it's actually the combination of those two things that has allowed us to not only help people understand where they should go next but actually take them all the way through completion do the care delivery itself and today in looking at our organization we're really a large care delivery organization that has these superpowers that help us understand quality affordability etc. Um, all-included care also has a really, really special way of pricing and

thinking about how to deliver results in the market. So, we've taken what we have learned and studied and delivered around cost savings for our clients and for our members and we've said, not only are we going to do that, but we're going to give you some actual guarantees and our own skin in the game to make sure we deliver that. And this is where we get to your Kalpers example. So, for people who aren't as familiar with what you're referring to, last year we announced um a first of its kind truly I think this

was the largest thing that happened in group sponsored care last year in which we partnered with a TPA. This is Blue Shield of California and Kalpers who's the largest purchaser of healthcare services outside of the federal government. Really, really huge. And we already had the other two that were right behind them. um to create this arrangement where we all had the same goals around cost savings and that we would do two-way risk on that contract where if we save them dollars above the trend benchmarks that we've est mutually

established we would radibly save money as would blue we would earn money so would blue shield and if it went the other direction if we overspent then it would come out of our pocket and it would come out of Blue Shield's pocket. This is what in my mind group sponsored care really needs. We need somebody uh and maybe multiple somebody's to step to the plate and say we're really going to back this up. Not with sort of handwavy, you know, pay me later kind of schemes, but actually real ways of saying we

understand the finances behind these large decisions and we're going to be with you for 5 years. And that's maybe one other feature I'll just point out about this. It's a five-year contract where we're looking at all the benchmarks of where we want to get from year one uh through to year five and saying we're going to do this together and we're going to make large commitments to clinical excellence. We're going to make large commitments to appropriateness and we're going to

deliver outstanding savings. So you've written a piece about uh essentially building trust um which which we published last week. uh building trust through improving the consumer experience, but also sort of bridging that divide you talked about between the payer and the and the uh and the insure, sorry, the payer and the provider. Yeah. Um and you're being now in the middle of that. What is So now I'm a Kalpers employee. I'm the uh Alan Hobin used to talk to me about the uh mosquito the the Antelopee Valley

mosquito abatement district which had two employees and was part of Kalpers and therefore got the benefit of you know being able to choose Kers. What what is that experience soup to nuts like for a a Kalpers employee? Are they do they get you irregardless? Uh do they have to you know they choose they might choose Kaiser in some cases I assume you you know Blue Shield and others does everybody who chooses Blue Shield do they get a choice to choose somebody else and then once they get into that do

they have to use included health or is it do you have to attract them? How you know there's been a lot of issues about people buying employers buying solutions and then no one actually using them and we can discuss that separately but how how do you how do you sort of manifest when you show up to the to the uh to the employee? Well, let let me make sure uh for people who know the composition of Kalpers overall that I'm clear here that we're talking about and have launched with the PO group which is their largest

single group. Um, so if you're on a if you're on a um Kalpers HMO, you're not going to get the benefit of everything that I'm uh Do they have an HMO at? Do they have HMOs outside of Kaiser? Because obviously Kaiser is a big uh I believe I believe yes they do. They do have HMOs outside of Kaiser and some I think are still administered by uh Anthem who had been their incumbent on the on the PO for I believe 11 years until we replace them with with this approach. So, and this what I'm about to

describe here would be the way that uh most of our uh covered beneficiaries would experience this. And by the way, most of the way most Americans in employer benefits get their care, right? Actually, I think a little bit Yeah, a little bit better than that. And at least in terms of how the discovery works. So, so a few things. One, yes, we offer a great one service that operates 24 by7 uh in multiple languages for all the Kalper members. Yes, we have a terrific uh five-star app that people love to use and they find easy and that

too can give them uh portability and and speed on on getting what they need. But there are a few other things that we've sort of created that I think make this pretty cool. One, um right on that insurance card, we give people uh connection and access to primary care too and understanding how they can get access to primary care. Um, two, the provider directory, uh, which you know is sort of a a tool as old as time and and and has benefited from very little innovation as you know, is actually our

quality discovery tool and it allows people to do that matching and quality discovery that way. We also have a dedicated team of nurses, nutritionists, therapists, um, uh, pharmacists, etc. that will selectively reach out and help Kalpers's members with whatever the care is that they actually need. And um this is a a terrific capability that um you know that is award-winning with respect to getting deep on what the needs of the members are and wrapping them with with all of those services. Um we are not yet

doing any of the inhome complex care stuff with Kalpers. in the future. Uh perhaps we will, but we want to surround that member and make it really really easy whether they're sort of trying to figure out a financial question or they're trying to figure out a clinical question that there's actually one great first stop for them that should be able to resolve uh all if um you know all of their issues. And that's just a new expectation. I mean you and I both live this. It's we we don't sort of normally

organize our healthcare world in believing that there's one number we can call or one person we can talk to. We sort of unfortunately have become accustomed to saying well I got to call over there and then I got to get the pre-o over here and then I got to organize how I'm going to park over there and that's the healthcare world as we know we're trying to bring that into one simple form factor. Yeah. And I've and I've you know uh obviously everyone's personally experienced that

and you see people who have uh you know severe illnesses or whatever have who have their 19 portals and you know 23 specialists and whatever and you have that adventure and but even even for somebody as you know who's generally healthy like I say kind of generally healthy like me you know I I had a weird thing with an eye and I you know I went on I went to we can discuss our friends in Amazon later but I I went on I went to one medical and hit the you hit the uh the emergency button and and talk to

somebody nice. And they said, "Great. Go see your opthrophologist." I went, "I haven't got an opthalmologist." And we and I said, "Well, where can you send me?" And they said, "Well, I can look up someone in your area." And I'm going, "That's not the next that's not the the next line you want to hear." I ended up looking in them and I found I found out eventually got to the guy who's on emergency call from Marin County and I found out apparently when you get old

your eye starts falling apart like the rest of you, but it wasn't anything to worry about. But it could have been serious, you know, that kind of stuff. But I mean, just just just in that experience, you know, like imagine if you were somebody who, uh, you know, was driving a truck, uh, like the hundreds of thousands of people who do that around the country and you don't even know what an opthalmologist is. I mean, we, you know, so some doctor throws that word at you, you know that that means

the specialist of the eye, but most people don't and they don't know the difference between an opthalmologist who's a doctor, medical doctor, and an optometrist who's not. And so and so you know we're just throwing people out into the wind and saying good luck hope you find it and that's just not good enough right and you asked me this question about what I've been writing about earlier and and this is why you have sort of seen so much zeal from me on this topic we have a provider system

that is uh not trusted um you know most Americans uh 76% of Americans believe that their provider system's primary goal is to make money by the way including the nonprofit health systems that by the way if you look at it it is well that that may be semi unfair but I mean you know there's no no it's no it's not unfair but let's just let's just really challenge how we got to be there and what we want going forward because that's not good and and just by the way on the other side you've got the

insurance companies we've all always talked about how low their NPS scores are but 55% of Americans do not trust them to act in their best interest And I honestly believe that's kind of conservative uh especially in today's market. So you've got you've got these two places. You've got the health system and you've got the insurance company. And we need a third way. We need a third way that sits in between the two of them where whoever is responsible for that third way. Obviously that's what we want

to do is paid only when the member agrees that I feel better and the system is saving money. And that that's actually achievable. It sounds simple, but that's not how anybody's paid today. But it is actually achievable to say members better, dollars were saved, and we have a sustainable healthcare future. That's really the direction I'm trying to take this company. And in that sense, we have a much bigger ambition that I think a lot of these other digital health companies that you hear about. Well, so

before we go there, let's just take a quick detour last couple minutes, last few minutes, I want I want to sort of wrap with where included health is sort of on the numbers today. But um a quick detour with the world of digital health point solutions andor other players. And you know, we're doing this at a time we're we're talking um actually on the day where hinge hinge health is going public. Um we're we're starting to see this market emerge. We're starting to see funding come back and you're seeing

a variety of stuff, right? You're seeing individual specialy clinics being funded. You're seeing a whole bunch of um still a sort of, you know, quote unquote point solutions being funded. You're seeing a whole bunch of stuff around AI that no one quite understands, but we're going to figure it out when it when it happens. Um when you at included are working with a big client take your Walmart saw your Calus or any or any of your other clients um there are obviously I don't know where they are in

the there are other non-included health services that are quote unquote digital health point solutions on the benefits part and there's also and then if they come into you do do you ever go out to those organizations as well? Absolutely. Um, and how does that work from a from a client experience piece? How do you if you send someone to wherever, how how do how do you get them back? Yeah. No, great question. Yes. And I think that the um, you know, I'm delighted you asked that question. I didn't know you

were going to and and I rarely get asked it because I think it's critical to all of this. Um, yeah. So whether it's a fertility solution or a msk solution you mentioned hinge or a uh type two diabetes solution like verta or any number of the other wonderful uh digital health point solutions that we've built in this country. We take it as a big part of our job to drive appropriate engagement and utilization of those services um and have been doing that for a while. In fact, uh, one of the COE

companies, um, recently told me at a mutual client that we had driven 5x the number of engagement into their COE program from the year prior simply by making it easier to actually have that upfront conversation about where to go next because people don't remember that they have a COE or even what a COE even means. Um, and yet we know that getting to a well-trained surgeon who's operating in a center of excellence that that's going to drive a better better result. Um it it is unfair indeed

probably impossible uh for us to expect that everybody retain the names, numbers, and access points for all of these benefits that they have. And yet we have great interventions that are scalable and lower cost. So we've got to find ways to use them. Now where I'd like that to go in the future, and this is not breaking news, but I think it's going to be important and hard, is that we take shared risk with all of those point solutions, too. The way that the business of that world works today, not

at included health, but at other companies, is that they'll set up a so-called marketplace and they'll take a percentage of the sales that each of those digital health solutions get. We don't do that. We've never done that. I sort of find it icky if if I'm being really honest about it. But if I could construct a world, and we are constructing this, where we take shared risk with clinically validated, highquality uh referral solutions, then that's great. And there again, we're working

right alongside our client partners and those digital health point solutions to accomplish something where it's transparent what we're doing together and we're all measured by the same yard stick. And how do you uh circle around and get people back if you send someone to an MSK solution or to to I mean I Yeah, this is why having a modern uh tech stack is super duper important. Um, a lot of the companies that you know, and we did this ourselves, they start on their own homebuilt thing because it's sort of

affordable and the fastest way to get to product market fit. But then what you inevitably find is that you exist in this broader sort of care delivery world. So I mentioned earlier our connectivity to most of the hospital systems and 65% of the other providers in the country. Well, that gives us superpowers with the ability to share data in and out. The same is true with those digital health solutions. I would like to see more of those guys get on a standard EHR. um you know a sort of clea certified um

EHR most of them are not and that really does need to change. Yeah, I think that I mean that there is still I mean I know that the brief experience I've had with some of them via our friends at Blue Shield is that the lack of connection between these specialy companies of various flavors and the sort of what what poses primary care you know isn't great and the responsibility as you said is is often thrust back on the on the on on the patient. Um does that mean you know if you see enough activity in any

one of those particular areas that you're more likely to build that internally? What's your sort of philosophy about that? Yeah. Um, good question. I think if you were to look at our strategy generally, and I'm I'm coming out of, uh, spending a few days in Minnesota with our leadership team, uh, we talked about this very explicitly. We want to build all of the elements that enrich the platform and that level of connectivity. And and I know you have to sit through endless interviews where people use the term

platform, but I re I really mean it in the way that I learned it back at PayPal and eBay uh and working in tech for most of my career where the platform actually is in the business of making all of its connected parts bigger, more scalable. It creates that flywheel. So for us, that's primary care, which we put at the middle. That's navigation, which we put at the middle. That's behavioral health, which we put at the middle. that could be controversial, but we do put it at the middle. Um, and the ability to have,

I think very critically, data that can stream out to all of our constituent partners to help make their services more personalized, more targeted, richer, and that we get that data in return. That's a real platform, not just sort of a a marketplace set of connections. Um, I'm optimistic about this, but the reality is, um, and look, you've built a career around this, Matthew. There most of the healthcare companies that we talk about are not not only not tech first, they don't even

really understand technology at a basic level to invest in the sorts of priorities I'm talking about, which by the way, now that AI has arrived, it's going to make the gap there even bigger uh than than it has been historically. Yeah. I I actually so I'd love to get you back on here because I want to talk about you know that sort of more airy fairy discussion about where is the world going with with a combination of AI consumer choice and I just wrote a piece this week uh about about about AI

which you know was just I'm confused because doesn't this one thing do everything and you know why are you why are you confused about it? I haven't read the piece yet. I will but why are you confused? I mean I mean because you know you have AI point solutions a people trying to challenge the EHRs the EHRs just for the variety of the EHRs doing it on their own and then you have the big LMS which apparently seem to be you know capable of doing anything and I think the the the point is that the

point I'm trying to raise is it's hard to understand what a purchaser should be buying and it's hard to understand for somebody selling what they should be selling. Now you're different because you're selling a big solution. Yeah. That and you're going to deliver it how you deliver it and you'll figure out the technology to do it in the stack inside. But I mean I think when I'm built when I'm selling a tool which is I know looking at looking at the note and summarizing and extracting codes or

doing compliance or something you know is that a separate tool a separate company is that get done by claw no I mean that's going to be in and we should spend more time on that. that this is a much longer conversation we we could have but but I think it's um it's relevant because you know as you said there are a lot of approaches to figuring out how do you deliver this all-encompassing care that's required but we know the problem is that we haven't had all-encompassing care and

there are so many falling through the gaps and we haven't even started talking about non-employer based healthcare which is where a lot of problems in the world of Medicare Medicaid and Medicare advantage Medicare advantage etc etc and that's going to be changing so there's there's a lot there's watch you done that. So, let's put a let's put a sort of pause on that one. Um, all right. But you got to have me back because there's I'll have I'll let's just end with I know we only a

couple of minutes. Just end with sort of current state of play of uh of included, right? And when when you when you're out there talk not that you would ever talk to investment banker or public market people or appear on CNBC, you do that now and again. Um, what what's the state of play? We talked about a couple of the big clients, Walmart and and and Kalpers, but give me a sec. How many how many lives you covering? Um how how how close are you to, you know, how close are you to the the mythical

profitability of a health tech company, you know, which apparently with a moder only takes 15 years and you may or may not be there yet. Well, give give me a sense of where you are as a business. Yeah, sure. Um uh I'm glad I'm glad you asked. I I you know this is not ever where I spend the most time in the conversation but it is really important for people to understand just how big and and sort of scaled this company already is. So we're already profitable um uh you know clocking at at uh you

know plus half billion in in billings can continue to grow uh see no end to the growth that we have available to us just in the existing product portfolio. and we're looking up at the rest of the world and saying um gosh there are real opportunities to redefine what great uh group sponsored and group purchase care looks like and probably other segments associated with it. Um, one of the things I would probably want your viewers to understand about us, which uh, most don't, is that yes, we work

with large employers, including over 30% of the Fortune 100, not just the ones you've mentioned, but amazing companies like Comcast and Google and Salesforce and AT&T and JP Morgan, Jason, on and on and on, but but actually we work with the leading health plans to deliver this solution, too. So, we're great partners um, you know, up and down the blues with United um, etc. because we believe that providing great care and raising the standard of health care for everyone requires us to be in those channels too.

And it might be just some of the solutions that are there. So it could be uh primary care or behavioral health or whatever it is that we're offering through those channels, but it's with an eye towards providing just really exceptional bragworthy care uh to every American uh who has the fortune of accessing our stuff. In terms of where we're going, you know, this is a company that that is profitable. It's financially independent. We haven't raised money as you know since 2020. Um

and um the mission has always been about doing this uh at massive massive scale and um and and and sometimes we trip on that and sometimes it's not as straightforward as we'd hope it would be. We've been doing it for a while. We really really believe in our recipe. I think this coming six to 12 months for us is going to have some really exciting new chapters opened that uh I know you'll be watching and we'll stay in touch on but involve us expanding our capabilities and our promise for our

members. No, and I I think to to quote to quote Jonathan Bush um not not about your company not okay we won't discuss but there was something about you know somebody I was online with somebody talking about how you know new healthcare is coming and you know people people have been building it since 1937 when Sydney started working on kind you know and we still haven't figured out how to get that kind of in inclusive how do you build a a new kind of medical group that takes care of people sort of soup to nuts and you know

lots of people are trying different ways but it's it's obviously in the current system it's super hard I think it's really coming I mean I there are when I started this company um there just weren't companies to look at that had the kind of scale that we do now and so uh I I really really think this thing is is taking off in a way that actually allows us to think beyond just doing this as an interesting growth company and thinking about how do we make this um truly an expectation of what great

care looks All right. Uh, great ambition and you're you're you're getting there. Uh, I've been talking with Owen Trip. He's the CEO of Included Health and Thanks for your time and I look forward to having you back and we'll argue about AI and other stuff. Yeah, we'll talk AI because it is the unlock to value based care and we got to talk about that. All right. All right, buddy. Thanks a lot. Take care. Good to see you. Bye.