Title: Owen Tripp, Included Health, talks AI
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6ilEDvkaxJQ
Language: en
Duration: 00:39:44
Upload Date: Sep 2, 2025

Transcription:

[Music] Matthew, the healthcare blog, back with Owen Trip, CEO of included health. Uh Owen, great to see you. We are now going to dive into we we talked uh a few months back about some included health and the strategy and all that kind of good stuff. Meanwhile, I have had your co-conspirators Amy Perrick and an Shaw Shaw on talking the clinical team talking about uh kind of the philosophy of primary care and how you figure out how you deliver care to populations and stuff and in the background you may have heard and you

know you've you've heard and you've written about and the rest of the world has said there's this weird thing called AI and chat GPT and Claude and you know now open evidence and who knows what else doing a bunch of stuff. So I wanted you've written a bit about this and there's obviously a lot more to come about this. So let's let's dive in a little bit to to to both kind of your philosophy of AI and then a little bit later on dive into how we think it might impact good health because Amy talked a

little bit about that as well. But but I guess um you know the first things first there's a lot of different pieces of AI most of the money and the firepower most of it in healthcare has gone to sort of fixing the clinician experience especially around ambient scribing and now you know extracting data now more and more that seems to be in the old world can we extract you know up coding out of the out of the text and charge more money to health fans who will fire back with their AI I that will try and pay less

money. So we're seeing it being used for things that I wouldn't say either of us believe naturally are going to improve healthare that much. But there is a fair amount of people starting to experiment with how can we make the patient experience better the world you live in. So just give me your overall take all the money that's been spent and raised or raised and spent or not yet spent on AI in health healthcare health tech you know what's your impression of where it's going and how it's what's been

happening so far. Yeah I mean you can almost uh you can almost picture a cartoon that to my knowledge hasn't been drawn yet. We could probably get AI to draw it for us where you have like the hospital executive uh using his or her AI to fire shots uh requiring you know uh a case be paid for to the health plan health plan you know executive who's using his or her AI to fire back and poor patient is you know sitting sort of down you know crouch below the desk trying to just figure something out and I I largely

think that's a picture of the world preai and and sadly right now it's a picture of the world post AAI Because you know, you set it up, but I'm just going to say it even more directly. So far, artificial intelligence as applied to healthcare in the United States and really around the world is just being used to drive increased profit on existing transactions and workflows via clinician efficiency and other things that we can talk about. and it's been used to increase the revenue or value per event via things

like coding um providing ancillary services that the patient or health plan need to have to pay for. Um that's not long-term a win for anybody other than the incumbents in the system. And so as you know and we talked at length the last time we chatted this has always been true since I started the company. We are all about raising the standard of healthcare for the member and we think a smarter, more powerful, more financially equipped member is going to get better outcomes for themselves in the market

and in the healthcare experience. And then and only then can we find our way out of the morass that we all talk about. I think everything else uh honestly is just lip service to the experience. So, what I'm excited to talk to you about today is is actually how you put these um exceptionally powerful technologies in the hands of members to get care faster that is cheaper to them. That's the win. That's the opportunity. So, today just to sort of set the landscape, at least as I see it for your listeners,

I think you have AI driving clinician efficiency. We've yet to see that clinician efficiency result in lower bills to anybody else in the system. So you sort of ask where those dollars are going. We also see AI for drug discovery and I think everybody should be very excited there. But I don't see drug pricing coming down and maybe we need to wait to see if that happens but sort of doubtful. I wouldn't I wouldn't hold my breath. And now the question is, can I actually get answers and get care

and get service as a member in a way that I don't need to wait in an, you know, in an office to get care in a way that doesn't require me um, you know, paying a copay to get a very straightforward um, you know, medical experience and and that's where we're really leaning in. So, let's dive into that a little bit because there are some nuances there, right? So we've had I would say you know in the last decade or so particularly the last five you know up until two years ago the last

sort of seven to two years does that make sense you know we had a whole bunch of people developing symptom checkers patient front doors trying to sell them to the health plans from the hospitals have some of them being on online already and you know there's a lot of value in that we also had a whole I mean for 30 years and you've been involved and I've been involved for even longer have had all kinds of stuff on the web of patient communities talking to each other of the Mayo Clinic and WebMDs

delivering information that was not available to anybody prior to 1995 essentially. I think that's true. So we've had this big explosion in consumer understanding. We also had a big explosion in consumer misinformation and stuff, but that's absolutely but let but we've had this ability to get information about stuff you couldn't before. The symptom check here kind of thing has now been revolutionized by the LLMs and now you're having a couple things going on. One is which is

patients going directly to CHGBT and others and other sources and asking questions and treating it like a therapist that you do behavioral health treating it like a a skilled GP or even a specialist. You're seeing some people I did an interview with Steve Brown is another health tech OG you know where he built a whole bunch of bots of different species to go to mine the LLMs to come back with what a what a oncologist would think compared to a GI doctor competed or whatever you know you you've got

obviously that's a directto patient use of AI then you've got people trying to replace at the moment mostly customer service stuff with voice AI and chat bots, you know, and then somewhere in the mix here, you've got clinicians of various flavors, whether it's people in the call center, you know, all the way from navigators that you employ to patients in a call center to actual doctors figuring out how to use AI in what they're doing. Which of those do you think is having the most impact at the moment? Where do

you think that side of the equation is all going if we kind of ignore the up coding down coding thing where we know most most of the dollars are going? Um so where's what's having the biggest impact at the moment? Did you start with the sort of uh generally available public? Um I start I started with I I I feel the something weird's going on. Let me ask GBT or something. Yeah. I mean if you ask me where the most impact is today, it's clearly there. Yeah. point per in fact you know um you know

when you and I last talked I think uh GPT4 had just come out GPT5 has come out here in recent weeks and um there's a massive step forward in the healthcare literacy multimodal capabilities reasoning uh that are baked into that GPT5 model I suspect you're going to see concurrent moves uh from Gemini to match that they frequently do um Claude etc ETA. So um we have put and by we I really mean these companies that are sort of creating these um lovely um highMP compute models. We put really excellent

tools to allow people to ask questions in plain English and then get answers in plain English. And now because of the multimodal inline capabilities, you can look at videos and pictures and sort of um uh reason with these things. Um that's terrific. uh none of them have yet sort of crossed a key stage that I think unlocks the whole market which is it's actually personalized to me and and I really want to explore what I mean by personalization here because if Sam Alman were here he would probably argue these

are deeply personalized. You can tell the model all about yourself and it can respond in context your culture your language your needs. Um, and in that sense, conversationally, it's true, but it's not personalized with respect to uh my actual health history, my financial background, what my um health plan will pay for. And to do those things requires a deeper connection into the personal data that exists that would allow it to offer that context. Because a question about my health and a set of symptoms

I'm describing should get a different answer based on my health history than the same question from you or a 12-year-old woman girl. Uh you know and that sort of sounds obvious to hear me say it out a lot but it's not actually how these things operate today. And um to to cross that piece um would require patients license or you know credentiing the AI directly into their health record and to do it across the health platform which it'd be interesting to get your take on this Matthew. I think that's

unlikely to happen uh for a while given sort of very appropriate privacy concerns and it would also require I think an even harder step which is credentiing the AI into my financial and benefit benefits background and and you touched on this briefly but if I'm ex if I'm if I have a health care need it's one thing to sort of diagnose and recommend a treatment path or even suggest treatment paths as the LLM do today. It's an entirely different thing to say, okay, and this is sort of how you obtain that service

or here's what you're going to expect to pay for it or here's what is authorized under your plan. Um, those things are are really actually hard to collect and and I don't see that the the custodians of that data, aka your employer or your health plan or the federal government or the state government, I don't see them quickly providing that information to the AIS. Yeah, I no I I mean in response to your question, I think that there is going to be a sub segment, you know, I think

Steve Branding is uh I'm going to have to look up the name of his company while I do this. It's cure wise. Um you know, which is brand new. It's just him and and and a bunch of bots at the moment, but uh we'll be out raising money and all the rest of it soon. To me there's a specialist group of patients who will just as there was with the early early days of the internet cancer and all you know who really dived in really took over there's a specialist group of patients who will

do that will exhaust every opportunity and those with rare diseases or whatever will I think are already diving into it and using it and I think a lot of other people are using it for general explanations um and putting a bit of information about themselves. the idea of putting all your medical records in and you know colle the kind of thing that you guys were doing in the early days before there was real access where people were faxing in or sending in by carrier vision you were sort of colleating everyone's medical records

and all their information then having a review team look at it doing that and putting that into the into the LLMs it's easier now than it was and maybe with with epics you know doing a solo mron it might be you can get all stuff is easier but that's still a big step for people to And the other thing as you mentioned is right now for those LLMs, they're not, you know, HIPPA certified privacy. You're putting your stuff in and you know it's going to train on it unless you stop it and in some cases it might

share it with the world unless you you know Exactly. I I have to work. No, that's a that's a terrific point. I mean, I was I was positioning the PMIC as just from the perspective of the member and in in you know, her interest in privacy and and sort of making sure that you're not sharing data that could travel. Um, I I think there's an equally if not larger problem on the side of the LLM because they then become liable for all of that data, right? In a way that, you know, you and I are

very aware of what the HIPPA breach penalties are, the federal reporting requirements. I mean at the usage of these companies even with as much money as they've raised that is a massively expensive event and by the way let's add one more in as people are using these for therapy um there is you know there are now claims that well it didn't react and there was an article in the times literally about somebody who committed you know a young woman committed suicide having confided in chat GP a lot now she

actually chat GPD did say go talk to somebody and talk to your parents and she didn't do it but then you know when they actually went and read the whole thing. You could argue there'll be we haven't had the legal ramifications of that yet. Yeah. I mean, just sort of on that point, I I I don't know the current statistics, but I know that at our scale and volume um you know, multiple people per week indicate suicidal intents in our across all of our care and service lines. And we have um literally a red

button inside of the app that allows us to not notify uh emergency services um to get people to that location. It's actually one of the I think beautifully powerful ways of having virtual engagement is because you can actually figure out where that person is and sort of take care of them. Um here here is here's the thing that I think we don't want to speed past though which is you know the data that is shared with these LLMs can be used for all sorts of other training data sets including you know

pharmacy companies that want to discover and and create new compounds you know based on your health history or your experience. um soon I suspect people will um you upload genome data into these things and um I think that represents a real privacy risk and everybody is going to want to use it in these ways like I I came out of as you know I came out of uh the early days of consumer internet I've built consumerf facing applications my entire career I continue to build them here obviously at included health it is my passion and my

knowledge set and one of the sort of axiomatic things is if people love using something and it's easy, especially when it's basically free, they're going to continue to do that. So, it's not, you know, uh it's it's it's not usually great for the propeller heads like you and me to sort of speculate that they shouldn't or won't because of these privacy things that they're largely unaware of. And more we need to think about like how do we make a better version of that that actually can solve

all the problems. And so, um, this may drift a little bit into where you wanted to go with the conversation about how it imply what it implies for included health, but our recipe is basically pretty simple. Figure out how to personalize in a way that the LLMs on their own probably cannot. So, let's make it contextual to your to your health history and your experience. Um, as you've shared it with us and as has been connected across the platform. We are not developing drugs. We are not selling your data. We will never do

that. At least as not not as long as I'm CEO. Um, second, let's make it contextual and personalized to your actual benefits experience. So, what's covered, what doctors are in network, where you can go next, what other benefits you might have access to. And third, I think and critically important, let's make sure that we're set up to actually deliver the the need. So if you tell, you know, chat GPT can recommend that you get a strep test or that, you know, that you likely have a UTI, but they're not going

to diagnose, they they don't want to be in that business for all the reasons we were just talking about and the liability associated with it. And they also don't have the way yet to follow through on the recommendation to of to where to get service. I'm hopeful that, you know, in partnership with companies like ours, you'll have a more consumer-friendly experience there. But those are the three ways that I know included health can deliver that full experience all the way through that's

personalized, contextual and and you know ultimately drives the care we need. Um but the last thing that I sort of want to mention and and and one where again I'd like your opinion is I do think that a human needs to stand in for like the coaching part of this the how do I I've presented Matthew with data. I've helped him understand his condition. I've helped him understand results that might have otherwise been scary and in a language he didn't understand. But now, how do I galvanize

him towards action? How do I make it easy for him to feel confident in the next step that he needs to take? I don't think the AIS are well set up to do that. They're honestly too agreeable. They're too much like, well, Matthew, great question. Or, yes, Matthew, that's a good point you're making. You shouldn't eat fewer than 15 cookies per day. Um, you know, because you want to, you know. So I I think that there's a there's an EQ coaching component of this that that people are going to respond

to. So I I'd like to take we can talk the rest of time about what you raised in that thing because there's three parts. The second part is incredibly complicated. There's three parts to the first one which I just want to know where you guys are and where you're heading. So there is I am a member of you know Kalpers or whatever or Walmart or whichever company is using I've got three things right. Number one I have my benefits. what's covered. What do I need to do? What always cost me?

All that stuff. No one knows that stuff. Yeah. Number two, you mentioned I need to I need to get whatever I'm getting. I need to follow I need to follow through. I need an order. I need whatever. I need a prescription. I need this. And I've just had this thing I wrote about about, you know, trying to trying to trying to get my appointment for my cardiogram and having to re relay the facts. Yeah. Which which AI has the facts? Well, I mean, so so there's that. And then third, related to you guys, of

course, is that you have a whole sance of providers delivering care not just getting people to other people's providers delivering care over teller health so how are you thinking about using how are you using AI so far and how are you thinking about using II in those three domains are they maybe they're the same domain but but they seem a little different to me in the flavor um yeah and it's and and it's interesting I'll tell you I'll tell you exactly where we are sort of on the

maturity curve and where we're headed on each of those um and and it's fun because I have been writing about this and um I have attracted a lot of energy I'll I'll characterize it that way from people you and I both know um who are um very emotionally on one side of these topics or another you know some people feel like AI should replace all doctors and not surprisingly there are a lot of people who say uh you know AI should replace no doctors and and uh it should only be like a little tool that's sort

of in the desk drawer to help uh assist in better patient care. Anyway, let me walk let me sort of crosswalk you with where we are. So, first on the whole notion of understanding your health plan, who's in network, who's out of network, how much you should expect to pay, what the heck co insurance even means, and how does it apply, what's your deductible, what's left. Um, all of that stuff can and should be in the hands of a terrific AI that can answer your question immediately with high

precision any time of the day without getting on the phone. And we have made terrific progress progress on that question. In fact, we've been live with a model that uh answers those questions with 95% plus precision um for the last now 12- 18 months. 95% we started around 80%, we've been bumping it up. Still not good enough because ultimately when it's dollars and cents on the line, people need to be able to feel like they know exactly how much they should expect to pay. they should know exactly what their plan is

going to cover, but that takes away a lot of questions and waiting on hold and trying to figure out um you know where to go next. So on the what does my plan cover and what can I do with my benefits, I think we have made tremendous progress and I think we're better than anybody else at least that I'm aware of including the health minds themselves on this topic on the well they're not watch competition come on. Well I mean look they you know in fairness to them they've also seen this

topic coming at them and you know if they could avoid you know hiring legion you know numbers of of call center workers they they would like to do that. There is a part of that process without becoming too weedsy which is about um is my claim appropriately adjudicated you know I think you didn't apply the medical policy correctly that part of it um we have not tried to take on with AI and I honestly think will be one of the last things we approach uh for the very simple reason that we exist downstream

of a partner that's making that decision. So the health is making that adjudication and we have access to all the adjudication rationale but we ourselves cannot readjudicate that claim and so trying to push an AI into the loop there is probably going to create uh member friction. So, we would expect to be continue to be their advocates using humans uh to prosecute uh through that work and get people back. And and I I think I've shared with you in the past, we've literally saved millions of

dollars uh in in a case I'm thinking of the Walmart account now. Millions of dollars have gone back to Walmart associates where they were build incorrectly on their health plan just as an example by by fixing this problem. The um second area which is around um how do we personalize to your experience and whatever care plan actions you might have and recommendations we've provided you in the past and next steps. Um we are starting there. We have we are already we've been sort of recommending


best steps for over two years now. That's been machinele learned pattern process. Really good experience. People like being recommended clear next steps. They like the follow-up activity based on their next steps. What we want to do is create a care plan for everybody, including people who uh feel well today, but but may need to monitor their care uh into the future and have that be a dynamic AI assisted capability. Our AI is called DOT. We want DOT to be your health coach um whenever you want it so

that you can factor in new information. Maybe there's a new life event. uh you're pregnant, maybe there's a new drug you're taking and we want to un you know we want dot to advise on ways to think about measuring the impact of your new blood pressure medication or some new nutritional supplement you're taking. Um I've seen that work. I'm proud of the work that we're doing. We don't think it's quite good enough to uh push into public domain yet. Um it's

coming. Um on the third which is about actual clinical diagnosis and treatment here again I'm super excited in the back end we've been helping our clinicians be more efficient better understand uh you know their the health histories of their patients understand and make sure the right information is in front of them at the right times uh and to proceed to the next best steps as you know u in the care plan that work looks good. I I would say any but any provider system, any provider group in the country that's

not doing things that are built around scribing and efficiency and recommended next step and billing efficiency, like you're behind people and you need to catch up and you can get those tools off the shelf. You don't need to call me for them. They're broadly available. So, we've been we've been installing those things to to good effect. But the part of the clinical delivery which relates to actually helping members get an answer without having to engage the live clinician or as a quick adjunct to

engaging a live clinician. Um we're in early days on that but we expect to lead on it. And the principle that underlies that, and I I think this part's super important, is that if there is a high if if you can actually get somebody something faster without creating another billable event and you can do it safely, you should do it. And and here probably the big big first divide I've had in the conversation between the rest of my provider system brethren is we do not want to create billable events just for

creating billable events and I've been sort of following what's coming out of uh Verona this week. I'm sure you have been too. Um I think that's where you're going to see all the agentic work from every other software provider to the health systems take a different approach. They're going to do everything around the billable event, but when it comes to ringing the cash register on getting a provider to do something, they're going to force that moment and they're not going to do what's

necessarily in the best interest of the member. Uh, and that's this is just where where we're going to take a different path. Um, and our business allows us to do that because we're hired to to deliver the best outcomes for members at the lowest possible cost for those members. That's that's our business. And so, you know, I know that's a lot, but this is where we we think it all ties in together. Yeah. And look, uh, it's just in for most of the healthare system, it's just

in their nature. I I keep on getting people pinging me about, um, because I'm doing this thing where I'm trying to track down the cost of a lab. But maybe by the time this comes out, you know, 30 days will be up and I'll have track down what what the real cost of the lab was. But the number of people who contacted me and said, "Oh yes, I was in my free uh you know wellness visit and I mentioned one thing or something was said or I was asked a question. I answered it. I got a script

and all of a sudden I that free visit became a you know and now a now paid visit which hit against my deductible because I got charged money for it." Isn't that astounding though? I mean you know that's it. But it's in it's like the scorpion and the frog, right? It's in their nature. That's how those organizations do. So let let me let me ask you one thing before we before we start bashing the rest of the US healthare system which we're both quite good at. I actually wasn't going to bash on that.

I just want to use that example. Okay. And we we don't need to go too sort of like technical on every step of it as a place where an AI that is on the side of the member may not have actually reduced or removed that cost from you but at least wouldn't have had you surprised on it. It would have said, Matthew, you know, where you are, where you're tracking on your So, this is a this is considered a preventive. I'm making this up, but it's considered a preventative lab. So, you're actually getting it at

zero cost and and you know, LabCore will get paid by your plan, but your plan wants you to be healthy. So, this is a wellness visit. But then when there's an underlying diagnosis found, you've now flipped into a finding and here's why you're being asked to pay 28, 38, whatever that was. and you know here are your next potential steps on on appealing this if you'd like to that that's not a perfect outcome that's not fixing the US healthare system what I just described but at a minimum it it it

reduces the frustration to you like I think that you and many other people in the United States understand that we have to pay a few bucks to get healthcare like any other service what we get pissed off about is that we feel we get nickeled and dimed the rules get changed on us without notice that there's nobody we can call nothing we can do about that. And the first step in fixing that feeling of frustration and disempowerment is at least helping us understand why it actually happened in the first place. Which in your vignette,

as you've shared it with me in the past, you don't even know why that happened. And maybe now you do. But uh I mean that's crazy that you as somebody who lives in this world all day doesn't understand it. Oh well. But then you know the good news is I get to trace it down which is but how many just just add up just for just for giggles. How many How much time did that take you to? Oh, I'm into hour for the for the lab one. I'm into hour I'm not quite got into hour three yet.

very often when I have a it's like I have a spare time in my skele schedule like I let me do this because I can write it up while I'm doing it which is you know people anyway let me let me go back to one tiny thing because I want to get to the last point right which is the whole AI for behavior change and coaching and that to me is you does it replace doctors that to me is absolutely fascinating but one little thing right which you guys do a lot of and have always done right which is finding the

best if I go back to being in your office in 20 12 13 and you showed me all the data on who were the best specialists in this area and you had this heart disease you went to this guy and whatever you had this cancer and we went to all the spec we had the grand round it was grand round in those days that's right and uh you know but there is a lot of friction in the kind of tracking down the right doctor appointment setting getting in to see them all the rest of it my friend uh uh Sarah Breubcka she's

got married and I've forgotten her last name now but she wrote a book about this where literally she had like was diagnosed with cancer and was told, "Oh, we can perhaps may get something to see you in three weeks." And you're going, "What were those three weeks like?" Where you couldn't, you know, you were told you had this cancer and no one would talk to you. I mean, that kind of thing, right, happening every day still. And I was just joking about the me trying to track down my cardiogram, you

know, referral and having to send a fax with. How close how much of that does your does it require your human navigators to be dealing with that and how much of that can be flipped to to the AI because I would assume from a business perspective included this must be a great opportunity to you know get those people to do some higher value work than being on the phone hanging out trying to get a Yeah. Um absolutely. So let's break let's break that one down because I think the notion of like let's just talk about the

patient workflow. I've I've been told I need to find a a doctor or a specialist for something. I want to understand who's good. I then need to get access to that doctor uh book an appointment and then I need to sort of uh prepare for and educate that doctor and educate myself. So, let's just take those one at a time, you know, but for everybody else's benefit, um, starting around the time you and I first met, we invested a lot of the precious dollars we had as a company into the machine learning

necessary to score roughly 96% of practicing physicians in the country on all the dimensions of quality that we thought produced a clinical outcome. And we could have an hour just on this segment and what we've learned and what we've what we've discovered that is amazingly predictive and many things that we thought would matter that really didn't. Um but that is our earliest application of AI. It was machine learning and pre-transformer. So it wasn't sort of the the you know

generative conversational AIs that we're now using but it was dynamic highly predictive self-reinforcing um you know using um neural networks and other models to take in data that was scattered around the world around around physician activity and physician performance and making predictive models which told us among other things um that many different doctors produce at different levels of quality based on their actual clinical experience and not just because they work at a fancy place or that they

happen to play golf with some other fancy provider. And so that has made the question of who is the right person to go to a nancond answer for us. And it's a different it's personalized. So it's a different answer for you than it is for me based on history. And this is sort of like one of our innovations that I'm most proud of. And and in a lot of ways I can say this now. We were five or six years ahead of our time on really thoroughly interrogating that question. The second part of that workflow is okay

now I need access. Um, here's where it gets tricky and I and I just want to be honest with you, as I always would be. Um, there are many doctor booking capabilities um, now available. I've been heartened to see that. And largely they're revealing inventory to doctors who are not the highest quality doctors. And this actually makes sense if you think about it. Like if I am somebody who's looking to fill my patient panel, I would try to go and be on the open table for doctors. But just like your

favorite restaurant still requires you to call and sort of justify why you should be at that table, it is it is actually still a manual activity to get access to uh many high-quality centers. Now, we've made one cool structural advancement on this that to my knowledge is the the only of its kind, which is that we've built electronic booking pathways uh with many provider systems around the country where in exchange of data there's no there's no financial transaction here. Um we have the ability

to book our patients um with higher speed and higher access. What the provider systems get out of it is they know that we're pre-qualifying that patient based on a clinical interest and a clinical match for their group. So, it actually works for everybody. Um, but that that problem still requires some old-fashioned uh elbow grease at times and making sure that that patient is well set up. The third piece, which I described to you, and I'll be quick about this, is okay, now, how do I actually prepare you for the visit? How

do I make sure that your agenda for the conversation is set correctly? That you've identified some topics that you want to cover, that your medical records are there ahead of your visit, um so that the doctor doesn't walk in the room, and we've probably both had this experience and say, "Oh, I can't really talk to you until I have that, you know, blood test or that MRI or whatever." Like, well, how do you not have that yet? We make sure that all of those artifacts pre-exist your visit so that

it can be a really productive conversation. Now, we've just explored one workflow, right? There are so many other workflows that a patient has to go through. But you can see where the AI and the agentic approach allows us to build speed and reduce friction for the member in some cases and where in other cases it still requires us to live within the, you know, sort of boundaries of the system as it's been created. And we've always had sort of a a pragmatism and a humility about where we sit to

know that like there are some things that we can say gosh we want to only have automatically booked appointments and have it so you can just you know push a button on a page and it's auto booked but if that if if if offering that capability comes at a trade to the quality that you're going to ultimately receive then that's not a shortcut that included health is going to make. Um, it also, you know, is a sort of decision that I think a exclusively techfocused healthcare company might make that cost

them long-term scale because ultimately most provider systems are not set up uh in order to deliver that level of connectivity. So, I know I went deep on that, but but this is the sort of stuff that that we're really interested in fixing. Yeah. I think the the the first part you said there was super important and I've looked at a number of companies now who are trying to take that and distribute that as a service more widely than the way you've got it you're obviously vertically integrated

in that and I think that's uh fascinating and I'm always s you know always super interested in what's in the black box and how do you really figure people out and I've seen a couple which I'm going I'm not when I've seen what they've been behind the curve I'm almost a little bit clear. All right. So, I'm not sure we're going to have time to get to the last bit because we've got like two minutes left and this is a probably 20our topic, but you obviously in the business where you

are providing medical care as well as the other stuff that you're doing and there's a lot of discussion especially in the mental health world where they just got banned in one state in Illinois. There's this whole concept of you know what can a doctor do? What can a doctor be replaced by? this discussion be going on forever. No one I mean Bob Wter told me that he said uh um in 2015 he thought driverless cars would never happen but by 2025 there would be no need for radiologists and now he said

they can't hire radiologists fast enough. Of course you can get a driverless car anywhere you want to go in San Francisco. Um well let's just tease this up. I think I'm in the thing that many of these uh piece pieces of work can be done by um by machines and that a lot of human machine interaction and some of the voice stuff and you know the hypocratic AIS and the ellipsuses of the world who do a lot of the sort of educational soft stuff and some of the diagnosis couldn't be done by machines

and as a provider you have to you obviously are thinking about what can happen you talk much more about supporting providers with AI so far. No, no, no, no, no. Well, that would be I I think that's a mischaracterization. I've been talking about putting the power directly in the hands of the members or patients, which I which I really think is important. But but yes, let's tease it out because um like many of these topics, I uh love talking to you about it. And I think I'm probably

on the other side uh but but for a different reason, which is I do think that ultimately humans respond to other humans when being asked to make a behavior change, being asked to do something complicated like take on a surgery or or a new uh treatment. And so there is a role that is absolutely critical for humans. And what is it going to look like? It's going to look very different than than the role that you know a provider has today, which is largely uh diagnostic and sort of prescribing the treatment. Instead, this

is going to be about coaching and influence and advocacy. And I think that's important to talk about. Yeah. And I'll be I'm going to be fascinated to see what that looks like in in a few years time. and and I've seen a couple of people who are doing sort of uh can we provide the best answer to a nurse or to even to a sort of a nurse assistant immediately that's better that they can put into the chat or they can read out or whatever that impress and that balance is going to be very interesting. I also think we

still, God knows how many decades, centuries into this, we still have very little idea what motivates humans, especially the ones who are the most expensive and hardest to motivate and have the most chronic conditions. So why don't we come back and we'll talk about that next time, won't it? Okay, I'll have you I'll have you back shortly. All right, this is Matthew Hull from the healthcare blog. I've been talking with Owen Trip from included health. We got we got some way through AI, but I guess

there's more to be done on that topic. Oh, we'll speak again soon. Talk to you soon. Bye.