Title: Patrick Quigley, Sidecar Health
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EAZ7y9uVFvk
Language: en
Duration: 00:56:53
Upload Date: May 20, 2025

Transcription:

[Music] Matthew Hold here. Another THCB spotlight. I'm here with Patrick Quigley who's a fellow member of the No Hair Club but a rather more dedicated one than me and also who's a CEO of Sidecar Health. So, uh, Sidecar is an insurance kind of company. I don't know if he defined himself that uh uh but trying to really revolutionize how people are buying health care and we'll we'll talk more about what that actually means in a minute. Uh I got very confused when I first ran the sidear a few years ago. Um

because I thought I thought Patrick was breaking the law and doing all kinds of things under the ACA. But life has both my understanding was wrong and what what Sidecar is do is sidecar is doing has changed. Um so uh we will start there Patrick what does sidecar do? How does it who is it working on behalf of I think you mean going to say employers and employees and how is it helping them by cap? Well well first of all I'm really excited to be here and have an opportunity to chat with you again. It's

always a pleasure. I really appreciate the energy you bring to these conversations. Um, yeah. So, let's start with the very basics. Sidecar Health is a major medical ACA compliant, Matthew, as you know, health plan, health insurance company that serves large employers today, right? And so, what does that mean? So, we are like every other major medical health insurance company and carrier like a, you know, not that they're very popular necessarily always, but United, Anthem, all the Buas, etc. So that's our

product, but we're focused specifically on large employers. So companies with more than 51 employees all the way up to Fortune 500 and our literally our clients span that entire entire aspect. So how long you've been focused on that aspect of the market? Give me a little little bit of the history of how you founded it, how you got there, and then where you are as a company now. Yeah, so I'm an engineer and a consumer guy. And so this uh psych health started really around my own personal experiences and

own family health journey as you may remember around my family not getting the coverage that they needed as as my kids were young and and were growing. So I was very frustrated with the ability to access care. And so when we came up with this idea it was actually based on my personal health insurance my personal health care experience paying for an MRI. And during that experience I realized that I could eliminate barriers to care by paying doctors directly with a Visa card as you may remember. And so,

not being a not being a health care guy, but being a consumer-driven guy and trying to figure out like, hey, how do we break down these barriers to care, we actually launched a product for the uninsured to start with. Our concept, as you had kind of set up in our intro, our approach to healthcare is fundamentally different than every other major medical health plan in the US. We are about empowering consumers and driving access, breaking down barriers to care. But before we actually sold that to an

employer, we wanted to make sure it works for people. So, we actually started with a product that enabled uninsured people, we started actually in Texas, to access coverage like they'd never been able to do before and act a little bit like a subscription model. After doing that for a few years, we learned how do you work in emergency situations? How do you handle cancer treatments, transplants, all of all of the big stuff, and then figured out, okay, now that we know how to make this work for consumers, for providers, let's

go launch our product for major medical, for employers, which we did in 2022. So we launched in 2022 in the state of Ohio. Um so that's where our carrier is doicile. That's now where I live, Matthew, the wonderful state of Ohio. Um and so we started that journey then and you know we've been the fastest growing employer plan in every market we've launched uh since then. Excellent. And which how many markets you in and roughly how many employers and employees on the Yeah. So we actually cover

employees now in 47 states. Um we only sell fully insured products to companies that are doiciled in Ohio, doiciled in Georgia, and we just launched Florida. Texas will be next. And that actually will be it for a while. Our fully in our our self-funded product of course is not constrained by where companies are doicile. That's that's all hell. Orisa although that's why that might be the first time I've heard that comment Matthew. Orisa is an interesting beast but go on. Yeah. No. So that's that's kind of the

status of the business. So um yeah and as I mentioned our our smallest company is a 51 person electrician group and our largest company is a 60,000 uh employee US employer and are you uh give me a sense are you uh thinking most of them are you're I see some of them you're the only choice and for most of them you are a choice. Yeah. No for actually for most of them we're the only choice. So what happens is um when we go in again most of our the largest number of clients of course is the large employer clients. So

you were talking about you know 50 to a,000 employees is kind of the core and for those companies they generally like to have one choice. So we offer you know we might offer four plans to an employer so they have different options but they don't offer us and another carrier. That's their choice not ours. We're more than happy to be available with any other carrier. But, you know, sometimes um other carriers maybe don't want to be alongside us because we have no networks, no prior authorization, um

unlimited access, and we're also dramatically, as you know, less expensive, right? So, it's it's kind of tough to compete with. So, uh the theory so give us the theory of how it works. So, now I am a employee. I've signed up with Sidecar Health. you know, I now need to go off into the world of having medical care. You guys don't have a network. You have information on pricing. What What do I do? Um what's you know, how do I how do I figure out what to do next when I need something? I

need How does work that MRI that you that you use for 100% 100%. Um so we work like everything in your life except legacy health insurance, right? So like we are literally the same as everything else in your life. So it's very intuitive for consumers especially like especially consumers that have you know don't interact a lot with the health insurance system because they don't know how confusing it is. So the way that we work is we give all of our members a Visa card like literally this is mine. So

with this Visa card we enable our members to pay for care directly with doctors of their choosing with our money. Right? We don't have a network. We we like to joke that Visa is our network. It turns out everybody takes Visa because it turns out everybody takes Visa. So suddenly you have unlimited access to go to the doctors of your choosing. So paying for care with by giving people a visa, it's not a credit card, it's a delivery mechanism for cash that opens up access to anything you need. But that's not

enough. The second thing is about enabling transparency, right? So through our app, you can actually see what your benefits are for anything you can do in the US healthare system. Every single drug approved by the FDA, right? Every procedure. Turns out there's a 170,000 things you can do in the US healthcare system, right? So, all of those are visible via our app. So, for planned care, you can go to our app, look up your benefits, and then go um call your doctor and say and basically say, "Hey,

I need to come in for a doctor visit. What are you going to charge me? I'm going to be paying for you directly." And so, that's the interaction for our our member. And I can walk you through a demo later so you can actually see how it works, but it's really powerful. A lot of people don't realize when they're getting a knee replacement that they're actually spending $20,000. You should get treated like you're spending $21,000, right? Like it's a big expenditure, right? And you should be in

in control of that. So So that's the that's the core of how it works. The second thing to note is how we actually set our benefits. So when we enter into a market, we figure out what the average commercial rate is for a particular service and we set our benefits based on that average, right? So some doctors are going to be more expensive and some doctors are going to be less expensive. And as you know, quality and cost are not correlated in the US healthcare system. And so that's where the power of

this becomes really interesting because if you're going into a given market, you asked about MRIs, right? So MRIs are a great example, right? So everybody's machine is basically the same, right? You've got 1.2T 2T, 1.5T machines, 3T machines, but they're all the same in terms of how we set benefits, right? So, at the end of the day, let's say you're I live in Cleveland. Let's say you um you need to go get a lower back MRI. We'll go, okay, well, the market is is basically charging on average $1,000 for

a lower back MRI without contrast. So, we basically say our benefits are $1,000. Now, what you'll also then be able to see in our app is you'll see that, hey, some of the major hospital systems might charge three or $4,000 for that MRI. And then the standalone MRI places, we might charge $300. And our benefits are $1,000. So if you choose to go to a place that's more expensive than $1,000, first of all, you know, ahead of time because you can either see it in our app or you can ask because one of

the great mistakes in the US healthcare system is that people don't know what things cost. Sure. Like when when you're paying for with a Visa card, they have to charge you. So they are able to tell you what things cost, right? What's unknowable is the insurance negotiated rates because that stuff is super complicated, right? So, when you go in and you say, "Okay, I'm going to I've got $1,000 for it." Like, if I go to this place and they're going to charge me, let's say they're going to charge

$2,000, I know I'm going to be responsible for $1,000 a bill. So, I have to choose whether paying that extra $1,000 is worth it versus going to a standalone location that charges 300. I know that my benefits $1,000. So, I'm actually saving 700. What happens with that 700 is I get to personally keep half. Okay. So suddenly I care and that's the key the key aspect. Our belief is the US healthcare system is broken because there's no transparency and then there's no motivation to care

and we change that. We give people transparency so they know the price. By the way, as you know, we also show the quality of the doctors so they can make good firm comp comprehensive decisions and then we create motivation for people to actually take value into account in their decision-m something that's never been done the US healthcare system before us. So that's all sounds great and we can get I think we can and we'll get the conversation about the limits of that later. But let's see what does it

actually look like. So power up you know I'm gonna buy a drug. Oh, you want me to log in? Okay. Yeah. Yeah. login and lo. Let's give it a dry run. All right. Hopefully, this is the wet run. The wet run. All right. So, what I'm going to do is I'm going to log into a demo account based on one of our markets. So, I'll use um I will use Atlanta. All right. Let me share my screen. Okay. So, are you seeing this, Matthew? should be coming. There it is. Yep. Awesome. So, I'll do a very quick

example. Um, so this is our mobile app. This is to go ahead and manage all of your care. You can kind of think about a little bit like an expense system. You go and you look up your benefits. You go access care. We b we drop um we divide care into two buckets. Planned care and unplanned care. Unplanned are like emergencies. So, for emergencies, we just want you to go to any doctor that you feel comfortable with, any emergency room. You'll know that you'll never be responsible for anything other than your

deductible. if you even have one. So, a lot of our plans don't even have deductibles because employers are saving so much money. A lot of times they eliminate deductibles. Um, similarly, we we make sure that unplanned events like maybe you go in for a knee replacement and there's a complication. Well, that's an unplanned event. We treat that like emergency. You're never responsible for any of that. So, so from a demo perspective, we're going to focus today on planned care, things that you know

ahead of time where we want people to know what things uh cost, what their benefits are, so they can make decisions that are right for them and their family. So, we'll start really simple. We'll start with RX, right? Prescriptions. So, through our um through our app, you can look up your benefits and local pricing. So, let's pick the most popular prescription in the US, Lipur. As as um we've talked about before, our um you know, our coverage has, you know, we want to make sure people have access to care. One of

our core principles is nobody should ever have to pay anything for any needed care except their deductible, right? And they should have control over where they're getting that care. And so, for example, when you apply that to to RX, you know, drugs sometimes have generics, drugs are sometimes branded, drugs are sometimes specialty. So, if if a drug like Lipur has a branded and a generic, we're going to set your benefits to the generic. That doesn't mean you need special permission to get Lipur branded,

you can purchase that, too. You're just going to have to to pay the difference. Unless, of course, your doctor says there's a medical reason for you to have Lipur, and then your benefits would be set to the branded price, right? So, um, but when you're, so when you're shopping, you have this choice about whether I get the brand or the generic. So, I like to save money, so I would always go get the generic. So, the way that our UI works here is probably pretty intuitive. You can toggle between

brand and generic, the form, dosage. Let's say you're on 10 milligrams. You can adjust the quantity. What makes us special, though, is this box right here. So, we're going to tell you what the average price is in your area. So, in Atlanta, 23 bucks for 90day supply of Lipur. And we're going to tell you what your benefit amount. this is the amount of money that is the average price for um or your particular um your particular service that you're trying to get and it's intentionally set to the midpoint

and with that information then you are empowered to go get the care that you need from the providers you're choosing and that's where it comes to the map. So these are real-time prices from uh the Atlanta area and then I'm going to highlight a few um you know not intending to pick on anybody but let's start with this one. Green is good. Red is expensive. Okay. So, let's say you wanted to go to Walgreens. How would that process look? Well, you know right in the app that they're going to charge

you $112. This is more than average and more than the benefit amount. So, right here, you can see this is $89 over. But let's come back to that. Let's say you wanted to go to Walgreens because it was convenient for you and it was worth it for some reason. How would it work? You would literally give Walgreens the group number, their VIN number. So that's like giving them your regular just like every other insurance company. They were going to ring you up for $112. You take out your sidecar health Visa card. You swipe

and you pay $12. $12 is their cash price uh essentially to them or do they go and hit some other system to come back and say the the sidecar health PVM price is $112. Yeah. Well, we we're not a PBM. we pull in, we have different partnerships with different companies to show different pricing depending on kind of the market and whatnot. So, this is a price basically that Walgreens has set based on these PCN numbers, right? So, um and it's it's it's real time and updated and actually there's a

marketplace for for h how we determine what to show. Okay. So, at the end of the day, um they're they're deciding they want to charge 112 and we believe that providers should be able to charge whatever price they want and then the employees or or our members can decide whether they're willing to pay for it. So again, let's say this particular member is willing to pay $120 for for Walgreens. So they know that they're going to be paying $89 more than the benefit amount. And how would it work?

You take out your Visa card, you swipe, you pay. Psycher Health pays the $112. The card is actually pretty awesome. It's smart. It knows that you're out of Walgreens. So it turns on. It checks in real time whether you have active coverage. You haven't left your employer. Assuming both those checks come back, we immediately deliver 11239 to Walgreens. At that point, Walgreens is done. Yeah. They they don't care. They've gotten paid, whatever. But the card isn't smart enough to know what you

actually purchased. So, that's where your phone comes in. You literally take out your phone and using the camera take a picture of the receipt. And you load that in the Sidecar Health app to um Sidecar Health. We scan. We actually leverage AI to read read the receipt. And then we send you a bill that says, "Hey, you went and got, you know, um Lipur. You paid $112. Your benefit was 23. Your responsibility is $89. This is not a surprise. It's right here in the app. And then at that point, you have

the opportunity to pay that in any way you want. You can pay with your HSA card. You can you can pay with a credit card. You can even mail us a check. You have 90 days to close out the transaction. And that's that's how it works. Does that make sense? Yeah. So, so basically uh whatever the arrangement was between the employer and side to to pay you a premium or whatever whatever you're charging them, there's this extra balance. There may be an HSA and you can either uh take it out of that or I

assume you're going to show me in a second. You can add to that but why why do you go on and do so let's throw it somewhere that was true. Well, I wanted to show I can't believe there are many people voluntarily paying an extra 90 bucks for 30 days for 90 days of uh of of uh of Liberator. But, you know, let's It turns out you're you're a smart man. Um majority exceeding majority of people once they see the pricing decide to do something else. So, let's So, this is a real time map. You can see there's lots

of green and some red. So, why not go over here to Kroger? So, Kroger is charging $19 for the same drug just a mile or so away, right? So, at the end of the day, a member goes, "Okay, wow. Maybe I want to go to Kroger while I'm doing my grocery shopping. I can fill my prescription. What would happen here?" Well, you go, you give them the the your group number and BIN number again. They're going to ring you up for $19 cuz that's what they want. You swipe and you pay. Um, we get the picture. We scan it.

We send you an email and say, "Hey, your benefit was $23. You just saved $442." And here's the magic. You keep half. Yep. So, this gets credit as you just said to yours health account. It is your money. You can use it for a time. Maybe you decide to go to Walgreens to pay extra because it's convenient for you for some reason or or for whatever reason. And at the end of the year, that's your money. It's actually given back to you through your W2 at the end of the year or it it some employers like

we at Psychar Health, our employees, they can put it into their 401k tax-free, right? So, it becomes very very meaningful. The typical, check this out, the typical family of four gets $1,100 cash back per year on Sidecar Health. So, a lot of money. That's that's very interesting. So the uh and a lot of people have tried this but because it hasn't been integrated with a sort of thing like this where you're where it integrates directly in your insurance because it is your insurance

and it integrates directly into sort of the map of of of searching. The only slight caveat here is that when it's a prescription you have to move this. Let's say your doctor sent it to Walgreens because it was in their system or whatever you have to call. Well, why did you send it to Walgreens? Why don't you just tell them to send it to Kroger? I mean, obviously next time you will, right? You you you should be you should see me in one medical. I have four different meds that I'm on and they vary

in cost between CVS, Amazon. Oh, Cuban. I I I So, so I so they so I have various where I where actually I have a drop down within one medical as to as to where to send it, but no, no one's offering me money. Well, yeah, but that's because they're all like different prices. Here's what's really interesting. One of the things that we do here is how we use AI to make it easier for our consumers is you can literally say, "Hey, I'm looking for a 10 milligram averance. Uh, I don't know how to spell

these things." Um, we can put any drug here you want. And what what what it will do is it will basically say it will go look in your area for your basket of goods and say, "Hey, with these different groups, actually the cheapest place to go, look at this. This is unusual. So between if those two drugs were your were were your basket, you actually want to go to CVS because it's going to cost you $104 and $22 worth of savings, right? Where you know, where's Kroger here? So Kroger actually must be

very expensive for Vinance right now. And so you don't want to go there because right so this is this is the power of having data, having information, leveraging AI to make your shopping easier and suddenly you're an engaged consumer. Yeah. And then you can then hopefully you can uh figure out you know with your with your doctor where to get it sent or there are I don't if you're there yet there's a couple of companies like Photon and some others who are trying to gather prescriptions

that you can control and send around which is obviously the next step and maybe maybe you guys should I don't know if you're doing that yet have a partnership yet. Yeah. Or you could just ask your doctor to print you out the paper copy like there's there's a million ways to there are ways you can do it obviously you know. All right. So that's how that's how RX works. You want to see like a like a medical example because there's no Yeah. I think that well that's the most complicated part,

right? Because people don't know the pricing 100%. So again, let's let's say you're looking for a primary care doctor. I don't know. Um so and you're just looking to go for a new a new doctor visit, right? So obviously there's returning doctor visits, new doctor visits. So the first thing we want people to do again at Psycher Health is them to for the first time to understand that they're actually buying care and what is the price? What are your benefits? So, in Atlanta, the

average cash price for a first-time doctor visit is $157 and the average benefit is $157, right? Actually, one medical one medical has not made it to Atlanta yet cuz that's about a 10% cost. You you might be surprised um what they charge people that that just pay pay cash. In any case, so that's the first thing. The second thing to know is we are asking one of the questions I always get asked is hey what's the this is such such powerful insurance right no barriers to care no prior authorization no formularies no

networks right it's less expensive what what's the real challenge well the real challenge is we're asking people to do things they haven't done in healthcare before right to engage in their care to understand their benefits and and ask their doctors what things cost so they can make decisions so that is a step that it takes time for people to get through So like something like RX might be easy, something like doctors, it might be a little harder for people that first time. So we have this concept

called pre-check providers. So every market that we enter into when we're setting our benefits, we set them to local commercial pricing and then we go out and identify like in our employer base like where are people going to um going to get their doctors and we create pre-check providers. These are places where people can go and know that they actually don't need to act the price because the benefits are intentionally set above these locations. So like let's say you wanted you're looking for a new

doctor in Atlanta, you go to Southeast Medical Group. They're guaranteed to be below our our our our benefit amount. So you don't need to ask. So that's like the onboarding process as you're getting to know Health. Let's say you're like, "Okay, great. But I want to go to my particular doctor that I've been going to for the last few years. How does that work?" Well, you know your benefit amounts and you can go to the map just like in pharma. And what this is is this

is doctors that are coming to us and telling us, hey, I want to compete for your members. I'm going to post my pricing to you. Hospital systems do this. Local doctors do this. This is also data from transparency data that we can actually go and load. This is also here's what makes us magic is that we also get all the swipe data. So every time someone swipes, we actually post the price they pay for that particular service at that particular doctor online. So our members can actually see local pricing, know their benefits, and

make decisions. And so you can see this whole list of doctors like I I don't know who, you know, Dr. um Christina here is, but she charged one of our members $123 or posted that price to us. And so if you go to her, you know, you're going to save $34. What's the experience? It's very similar. You go you you tell people you have Psycher Health Insurance if they're not familiar with us, cuz that often happens. You just say, "That's okay. I'll handle the insurance. I'll be paying you today with

my Visa card. I just need a receipt." And so you go, you see the doctor at the end when you check out, you get a detailed receipt or you ask for after visit notes, you take a picture of that and that's how we close out the claim. You load that and then we send you an email and say, "Hey, your benefit amount for that visit was 157. You were charged 123. You saved 33 and were refunded 617 to your earned benefit." That's how it works. How how often does the 123 not be the price you end up being charged? How

how often does the data um you we encourage our members to always call and ask? Yeah. Right. like prices can change. It's not like it's often, but you know, again, there's no contracts. We don't contract with anybody. It's a free market. So, we just tell you that the most important thing to ask your doctor is not are you in network. It's I'm going to come in and see you today and pay you. What are you going to charge me? Yeah. I mean, and that and that and the more the more that happens,

the more information you get, the more you Right. Like, and that's the crazy part like the community brings, you know, pricing transparency to itself. It gets smarter every every day. And I think you know people have tried to do this sort of you know transparency stuff and and costing stuff but without the connection back to the payment mechanism and you are putting together both a whole bunch of stuff going like CPT codes the back end doctor database databases of doctors and hospitals 100%.

Like look we're not that smart Matthew this is obvious this is why we believe every single it's obvious but it's a very complex data problem in the back end. It is. It is. But the the answer is obvious is it's obviously better for people to be engaged in their health care, know what the decisions they're making, being control their health, and be empowered. But you're right, it is hard technology, right? It's hard to make the credit card work title, and it's hard to facilitate the data. It's

hard it's hard to make this work in a consumer way, which is why I started like I I'm a consumer guy. I am an engineer. I am not, you know, someone who spent 26 years working in health insurance. And I think that's the power of what we've done. We've designed something for people. And then let's go look at something complicated. So I need knee surgery, but I I Okay, I I personally in this bucket where I'm I'm starting to think about All right, this is where things get wildly fascinating.

So you mentioned knees, so let's just pick a knee replacement. So let's say you're having to have an admission for for a knee or a hip replacement. So again, every every procedure is different. We ask people actually to get a good faith estimate. All doctors and all providers are required to provide good faith estimates if if if asked. And when you get that good faith estimate, you take a picture of it just like it was a a a a receipt. We load it. We'll send you an email and say, "Hey, for

that surgery, um, your benefits are $80,000 in the doctor might be charging 75." So, you know that you're saving five and keeping 2500 or the doctor might be charging more than the benefit amount. You might learn that they're charging 90,000 and your benefits are 80,000. So, you know ahead of time that you're going to be responsible for $10,000 if you go to that doctor. But in that particular case, we'll always say, "Hey, here are three other doctors you may want to consider that are below the

benefit amount." And it's your choice. Like everything about our world is about creating consumer knowledge, about quality, about cost, and then choice. We're not going to make decisions for you. You and your doctor need to determine the course of care. So, in this case around a knee replacement, let's say uh the average cash price for a knee replacement admission in Atlanta is 84 grand. Our benefits 84 grand. here. This is like real data. Like Pedmont Hospital is charging $36,000, right? That's you're going to

save $47,000, right? That's a and you get to keep $23,000. Yeah. Like this is why what we're doing works. This is why it's so different than everybody else. South Regional Medical Center, it's $35,000. So, we we don't have every doctor um uh pricing data in here. We don't have every doctor's quality data in here. We have about half of the doctor's quality data. We have a ton of pricing data, but we encourage people to call and ask. Always get good faith estimates, but be empowered. You're

spending $80,000. You should know what's going on. That's how this works. And presumably you have do you have do you have somebody who's over the top here as well in this list? I don't know. Oh, 100%. I'm I'm I'm sure. Um, again, for this particular example, I I I don't know, but like it looks like North Side, which is another great hospital in Atlanta, they're also below the benefit amount. There's Wellstar. I think some of the transparency data um suggests

that they they're going to be more than this, but I'm I don't have somebody as more as the average cash cash price 100% by definition. And let's pick a different example here just to to go live. Let's say it's an MRI. I'll I'm just going to pick one randomly. Again, we always have pre-check providers for major things. We'll say the benefit amount is I must have gone out of Atlanta here. Um three. It's all very re Yeah, it's region specific. Your your prices are based on where you live. Um,

so okay, there's a bunch of places that are gonna be below. I'm sure there's places that are above. We just got to find them. I guess I'm not I'm not get I'm not getting lucky on prices above. They do exist. It's It's the midpoint. Okay. Maybe it's a brain MRI. I'm sure they're here. Well, that's not right. Um, it's a patient free. So, in any case, there's there's there's definitely examples. It's a stomach MRI. Okay. 754. Someone give me something worse. Here we

go. There you go. There we go. Right. So, you're definitely going to find places that are more. Yeah, of course. Um, of course. Like, and and I always find that um like drug tests and imaging um are are not drug tests um like like lab uh blood tests um it's wild the price variations. Um so, like 26 bucks. I'm sure there's going to be a bunch below, but there's going to be a bunch above. Obviously, there's a lot, but hopefully you're getting a sense like this is a different Here we go. This is a

different way to think about healthcare, right? It's a it's a way to suddenly start realizing that you you can be in control of this. One of the one of the dialogues here um is always that this is also too hard. Like for those of you that have ever dealt with a mortgage, like that's hard. Being able to ask your doctor like what things cost, what are you going to charge me so I can make a decision? Is something that we do every day. So that's fantastic. Um so let's uh I think people get a great idea of what

you're doing here with the demo. Now let's talk a bit about a couple of things. First off um uh uh what happens. So uh Sidecar makes money by how keeping the keeping that difference driving people. We're we're a health insurance company. So we're like every other health insurance company. We we collect premiums like you said pay claims and so our margins are controlled by the government. So in the large group space we have 15% I guess you really if you look at the the the stuff really closely maybe you

can get 17% gross margin and you with that 17% you actually have to pay for your claims team, pay for customer service, pay for brokerage fees. We only sell through brokers. Um so that's how that works. Yeah. So we make money like everybody else. What's happening to the extra bit? So let's say now it it was it was uh it was $83,000. I gave 12,000 you know they did it for 35. I gave 12,000 back to the uh patient. where uh where did that 12,000 come that came from your the premiums collected and you're just lowering the

overall amount of spend. Yeah. Yeah. What that does is that somewhere in some ways you you're lowering the 85% so you better exactly right. You're hurting yourself. No, but it's it can't affect the 85% because that's regulated. What ends up happening and we haven't really talked about this yet. So let's talk about economics. So the way that our product works creates so much engagement. We we keep people out of the emergency room. No one's missing a drug uh a prescription. They're they're

they're staying on top of their prescriptions because prescriptions don't cost anything. You always can actually get paid to take your drugs. So, you take your drugs. You're not having trouble getting access into doctors because you can go to any doctor. You're not you're not delaying care because you're not waiting for prior off. So, people are 50% less time in the emergency room. You're not overspending on on imaging. You're actually spending more on on uh mental

health care, by the way, because we have no barriers to mental health care. Turns out that's one that everybody takes because that almost nobody takes insurance. So, but when you put it all together, we end up with lower lower claims costs. And so, our typical employer saves 20%. I'm going to say that again. Our typical employer saves 20%. Okay, that is a massive amount of savings. Now, what's also typical of our employer, which I love, is that's so much money. Our typical employer gives,

you know, 50 40% of it back to employee ease with better coverage. So, to be a super dork, because I am one, like the actuarial value of our plans tend to be much higher. Like, for example, um, out-of- pocket maximum. So, on a typical BUA plan, you might have a $2,000 deductible and a $5,000 out of pocket. Well, if you have a deductible on our plan, our out-of- pocket maximum is the same as our deductible, right? So, out of pocket maximum or less, so our plans are is an example why one of our reasons

our plans are richer. So, our economics, back to your question about where does the money go that we're getting back? Well, that means our claims costs are lower, which is another reason why our premiums are lower, aren't our costs to employers are lower. That's that's great. So, two other things. One is um you know, how does okay, maybe you'll stop people going to emergency care because they're they're getting access to primary care or whatever else, but better. How does it

work when you hit emergency care and you know you're seeing these incredible bills that come out of emergency rooms or trauma admissions or what have you? H how does that work to you as a company as well as if you're saying okay you don't see any you don't see a bill because we're not we're not pre-planning to the consumer but the bill is you know 197,000 whereas if you'd been able to pre-plan it would have been 52,000 or whatever the number is. How does that impact you? Well, let's let's let's

let's first start with the people because the most important thing is making sure people are members, the employees are covered, right? Remember, Matthew, I designed this plan for my family, right? So, so the most important thing is what the statement that you just made. The members are completely covered, right? And one my favorite example actually is not the emergency. It's the surprise complication in surgery that no one knew about. Like you were going into a surgeon that you that you believed you were going to get $500

money back, but there was a $100,000 complication that you didn't know about. So what happens in that particular case is you are responsible for none of that additional complication. It's treated like an emergency. How would you know, right? You're not fighting with the insurance company over well that was experimental or that that you need a prior authorization for that. Never would happen. And you would still get your $500 back. So like it's about protecting the individual. So whether

it's an emergency as in an emergency room or it's an emergency as in it was an unplanned event around a planned procedure, you are protected. So that's super important to us and who our what our values are. Now your second question is well that sounds great. How do you afford the economics? Well, we plan for all of this in our actuarial setting, our actuarial process to set the premiums, right? So we know and can expect how many emergency room visits you're getting and what you're going to

pay. The other thing to know is that we pay really fast. We pay upfront. Right now, emergencies are different because we don't know what happened and they the the hospital system or emergency room will contact us, but we don't mess around with trying to play hard ball with emergency rooms. We pay commercial rates and so even though we don't have network arrangements with these emergency rooms, the amount of money that we're offering is always the market rate. And so I can tell you with

thousands and thousands of emergency room visits, we've not ended up in disputes with emergency room. happy to get paid up like without so they'll basically so let's say they they put out the charge master price but the emergency rate is three times Medicare or whatever you're paying three times Medicare or whatever we're paying we're paying whatever the market average price is for commercial patient and access right so I can't tell you what that is every market's a little different based

on the but but you're saying the hospitals in general will take it and they won't come after you aggressively and sue you for the different not in general every time okay I've heard rumors there are some hospitals which don't play like that Right. But that's a different the whole surprise billings thing about that that you may well. So, so, so here's the thing that's really important to understand about our business and providers. You can see in the public sphere where providers and

payers, they fight a lot. We don't because we go to providers and say it's very simple working with us. You determine the price you want to charge and our members decide whether they want to pay it or not. And if they pay it, you get it upfront. So, there's no question there. The second thing is you're not asking me for permission to do a procedure you know needs to be done. So like we're a doctor's dream like if I'm not saying like this is what one of the part of the founding story

with soccer health is I need to get that MRI remember. Well my insurance at the time would not allow me to get the MRI before I got a CT scan. So I had to go do a T CT CT scan got the results the doctor's like turns out you need an MRI. That delayed care in our situation it's like when the doctor says you need an MRI you get the MRI. That's powerful. So providers like that. They choose their own price. They have no collection risk and there's no prior off, right? And so when we enter into a market, some

hospitals might decide to charge more. That's totally fine. And what has happened in that situation, our members decide to go somewhere else. And remember, we are paying commercial rates. So hospital systems right now are overwhelmed with Medicaid uh pricing. They're overwhelmed with uh Medicare pricing. Commercial patients is where they make their money. And so if they overcharge our members, our members go somewhere else, they come back to us. We've seen this many times, and they'll

say, "Hey, what do I need to do to get your members back?" Well, just pick a rate. We'll tell you what other hospitals are charging. And then you see immediately they're competing for members. So it's a total change in how the market engages with our members than every other health and that reflects in their emergency rates and their sort of quite surprise rates as well. Explain that question again. So in other words, you know, uh I've been working on the MRI or on the bundled procedure for, you

know, hip surgery or whatever, but you know, I have a a complication of the hip surgery or I have an emergency room trauma visit which, you know, wasn't pre-negotiated up front and that one can just stick in the can I just get away with sticking up the sticking sticking up the charge master rate that's four times or five times, you know, what what the quoteunquote commercial pre-arrangement rate would be for a pre-arrange visit. Well, again, what and I know you know this, but the way the No

Surprises Act works for emergency room visits is like they have to it has to be the appropriate rate and or they go to operation and there's I I I think that's interesting it plays out. I suspect they can't do do two different things but you know you I I don't know as that goes on and they're only a minority of hospitals who've been playing that game but some of them have been anyway. Yeah, I mean I understand like a lot of times hospitals it seems to me will use that as leverage to try

to get negotiated agreements. We don't have negotiated agreements with hospitals. Hospitals literally can set their price, right? Like so there's nothing to negotiate. If you want to charge 10 times Medicare, have at it. I remember sitting down with one hospital system and explaining our model and saying, "Hey, you know, we're going to pay the average rate." And it's like, "Well, we we charge more, Patrick, than the average rate." And I said, "That's

fine. Are you worth it?" They're like, "What do you mean?" I'm like, look, the way our product works is we make it transparent to our members what other hospitals are charging and so so they can choose you. And by the way, we do see when members actually value and pay more. The only question I have for you, Mr. Hospital, is are you worth it? And they're like, well, we don't know. I'm like, well, you're going to find out. And that that's actually the power

of what we're doing. That's how we are able to bend the cost curve for the first time. By empowering consumers with transparency and reasons to care, we create a marketplace where providers are able to charge what they're worth and get paid what they're worth. And consumers like they do in every other market, they're able to determine what everyone's value is and that fixes the US healthare system. So, uh, second rated question is now I have a complex chronic condition. Yeah. Uh, is there a

bundle? I mean, you showed me a bunch of individual procedures, but the issue the issue is for the cost overall is how many of them I am I getting? Am I getting the right number? Am I in the right care plan and blah blah blah? H how are you working on that and how are you managing that? Well, again, I mean, we do this all the day. This is not our first radio, right? So, um we're 8-year-old health insurance company. So, at the end of the day, we do it two ways. One is through our app, you can

look up episodes of care, which is going to be a generic bundle for your particular procedure, your chronic conditions and that type of management. But that's like like I just said, it's generic. What we instead suggest, and this is a crazy idea, we expect your doctor to be determining your course of care. Our job is to pay for it. So, we have what's called benefit navigators where if you want your care team to call our benefit navigators, we'll make sure that everybody understands what our

reimbursements are, how it how it works, what your benefits are, or you can call us directly and we'll say, hey, if you're trying to manage cancer treatment or other a chronic condition or an extended thing like, hey, here are like five or six places in your area that you should consider in your in your with with that we've seen other members go to that are below the benefit amount or we can work with a care team of your choice. We want to make sure you know your benefits and that every decision

and every journey you're on is is completely transparent. A much better example is maternity. Maternity is complicated. It's a journey. It's not one event, right? And so we've got pre-check providers for maternity in every market. And then we can also work with your particular, you know, your particular office on that particular journey and make sure you know what extra cost you might have or how much cash back you're going to get. So in those cases, I mean, if I was to go back into the app, would I see are

you mostly doing it ex assuming that the doctor you choose is going to build that journey out for you or is it actually part of the you know, is there a sort of care plan combined cost of of care for maternity or cancer? It's very it's very it's very specific on a hospital. So take maternity, they might bundle, they might like take like your hospital might do a bundle. um whereas a cancer journey might be much more tailored. And so that's why we make care navigators available to members and to your doctors

of your choosing so that they can kind of coordinate the the payments. The one thing I'll tell you like let's take cancer for example um I try to spend as much time with our members as possible. Unfortunately, one member I spent time with um his wife was you know going through CA cancer management and what he told me is like hey Patrick this has been incredibly stressful but the one thing that I know is that I don't have any financial liability. your team has been amazing so I can focus on my wife,

right? And that's what we're going for and but we want to make sure it's done in a way that you have choices as opposed to like no you have to go here, you must go to this particular doctor. We're not a narrow network plan. We're we're the broadest most comprehensive plan available in the United States. So uh with that g give me the sort of the the the next sort of step out of this. So, you know, you've got these bundle episodes of people have have chronic illness. You obviously have lots of sort

of things that might or may not go into bundle episodes, which is, you know, MRI for that, maybe a one-off, same with same with drugs, with the rest of it. Um, in the end, are you I I see you're putting everyone everywhere, but are you in the end directing a similar amount of traffic to certain providers over others? No, we So, here's what's super interesting. At the end of the day, we're creating a marketplace in healthcare, right? It's it's it's a result of our action of taking care of

patients and making people consumers of healthcare for the first time. We're not directing people anywhere. Again, our margins are controlled by the government and we just want people to have choice, access, knowledge in their decisions, right? So, we want to enable providers that want to compete for members to be able to do so, right? So, we want to make that available to them and and like whether you're a point solution like Hinge Health and you can actually try to highlight people that are looking for

msk solutions or if you're a provider in a particular area that's trying to promote their cardiac pattis practice, we want to make sure people know you're you're there, but we are never going to tell someone, hey, you you should go here. What we're going to do is if if you send us a good faith estimate that's above your benefit amount, we're going to tell you here are some other options you might want to consider and here's what their quality and costs are. So but

you have people like you know hingel or other virtual providers on the system. We have anybody that want that like usually like let's take a a large jumbo client. They'll determine the point solutions that they want to make available to their members and point solutions can come to us and they can show up in our list like I see. Right. So it's like again we're we're literally Switzerland. Yeah. It's sort of I'm comparing and contrasting a little bit with the sort of the more typical you know navigator

types like included or or Yeah. We're not an we're we're not going to you've got some navigation aspects to give help to clients, but you're not but you're not actually saying we're going to pick these three things and we're going to have a plan. Exactly. We truly want your doctor determining the course of care because it turns out your doctor knows what you need, not us. No, and I and I think frankly crazy concept. Well, you know, I think yeah, um there is obviously as as you're well

aware, there's a ton of price variation, there's a ton of quality variation, there's a ton of practice variation and and that's been the sort of bane of the US healthcare system. It's all been done behind the veils. And then the other thing, of course, is that the price obfiscation, not just variation, has got lots of stuff going on behind it. And yeah, you know, we're hearing all this about PBMs and and and drugs. Not to mention the same stuff is going on in terms of kickbacks and god knows what

else in terms of uh and variation in terms of pricing for for impatient outpatient procedures and there's lots of there's lots of ways hospitals are making money off the government etc etc etc. Yeah. But transparency solves a lot of this problem like it is like we when it's not ignored, right? But the point about your system is that it's actually impacting, right? Typically transparency, it's hard to figure out. They post up stuff, it matters, right? The health plans haven't in general paid

a lot of attention to actually get the lower price. Well, again, like these are the same health plans that Kaiser Family Foundation says they they are have a 19% in network denial rate. And it's it's it's not okay, right? If that if that if if and I think United came out and published that their denial rate is if you look at it this way is 10%. And like I guess where I really struggle is like why are we okay with this at all? Forget 19%. Why are we saying 10%'s okay? Like it's not okay for my family. As you

know, as you've gotten to know us, like our denial rate last year was well below 1%. Right? Because again, we want to make sure people are getting care. Like it seems to me like the US health care system is is designed to make it hard to access care, delaying care, right? And that leads to worse outcomes, higher costs, and the whole purpose is just trying to constrain cost because it's so expensive. Why don't we do what every other market does and actually create an opportunity for people to decide what

they value, be informed in the decisions that they make, and actually make those decisions? And you can see people like that actually drives cost down. Our our plans are on average 20% cheaper than comparable plans from that have the same richness value as our plans than all the major brands. Right. So, so let's talk a second about um you know where you are as a company and how this can extend because yes commercial is very important. Commercial is super important for the provider community because as

you mentioned it's it's the most profitable part. Um you can at a sense if you're not doing if you're not if you don't have that many members you kind of you know that yes they'd rather get the deal than not get the deal. If this became mainstream number one how does it go to uh Medicare? Can you start doing this? Can you start running this as a Medicare advantage plan? Yeah. Can it somehow you know be a front I mean right now there's an RFI out from uh HHS looking for new solutions. Could this be

something that standard Medicare could use? You know, uh even Medicaid. In other words, how do you even further mainstream this as an approach? Now the techn is there and now you've basically built the system. So that's sort of that's sort of the the first question. And then the second question is um if you did that to enough, you know, if you got it mainstream enough, would it be 20% across the board or would it be 2%? because reversion to the mean you found that people would say well you

know there are so many of these people coming through side or the equivalent I can't give them that rate I'm now give you know I can't give them the teaser cash rate they've got to come back to my more average cost rate what do you think okay so let's answer both those questions because they're super important first is we fundamentally believe this is the only path forward for US healthcare I'm going to just just pause on that comment you don't you don't you don't hold with my nationalize

everyone and give them a fixed budget idea look if I was in charge and there's lots of reasons I'm not why wouldn't healthcare be nationalized? I understand everybody should have access to to quality healthcare right now, but like at the end of the day, that's not going to happen in the US. Like there's a lot there there's just there's lots of reasons not I I understand it. It is certainly it's certainly not but look the point here is that our approach and empowering consumers, right? Giving them

choice, making sure providers actually have to be transparent about their quality and their costs, right? that actually drives bends the cost curve drives down health care, right? So, so it is not a question about whether or not this is the way that the whole the whole market will go. It will the advantage is too big. The one of the question is like how do we make sure as a company that we are we are the leader and we're not, you know, the the pioneer and that someone else actually ends up being being the leader, right? So, we

want to make sure didn't United have a thing I forget what it was called that then got integrated. It's now actually a fast growing brand of theirs where you buy oh I forgot the name of their product but they have a product that's not a million miles away from this. It's where consumers can buy slices of care uh run by the guy who was at Carol. I'm not sure they I will have to you answer the second question. I'll Google that one. Okay. But let me keep answering the first question answer. So like our view

is that Medicare advantage absolutely Medicaid we've actually had states ask us if we would ultimately take want to take over their their Medicaid program. In fact the former director um of healthcare for California and ran medical Jennifer Kent sits on our board. Right. So the vision for our our business we're a missiondriven company that believes that everybody deserves access to quality affordable healthcare. And by our approach of empowering consumers we can lower the cost of care in every market. Today we're focused

only on employer. It's a trillion dollar market and we are venture back so we need to be focused about that and we don't want to get diluted but ultimately we will offer Medicare advantage plans Medicaid plans as you know we la we had an ACA plan um so like at the end of the day we we there is we believe we can actually despite Warren Buffett's statement that the health care system is a tapeworm we believe and we can see it in hard data that we can use market economics to actually solve that problem

and everybody and we're by the way happy to work with other carriers carriers that want to use the same approach. Maybe they can we can license them into some data so that they can do this. Maybe we can license them some technology. We want to bring the whole market here and we will do that over time. So that's the answer to the first question. There's we have no small vision of what we can accomplish. This the your second question. Can you phrase it again? It's kind of like does the

price the prices Oh, do the prices move back? I love this question. I love this question because that's what happens in every other market, right? You introduce competition and prices go up. Well, it's 100% go up, but I mean, then I revert back. It doesn't happen. So, let's go back to the MRI example. So, the MRI example is why is a major hospital system charging $5,000 for an MRI when the same machine is available on a standalone MRI like a center for $300? Like, there's no difference in

quality of care. There's no difference in care at all. Right? So, the problem is today in the existing system, there is no transparency. there is no there is no need to make that trade-off and costs are getting smooth and there isn't accountability in the health care system and so what ends up happening when you introduce our type of model let me give you another example it actually brings balance to it there is a hospitalist system um that I can give you an example with I don't want to I don't want to

share with them their their name online but like I was sitting there with their COO and sharing an example of three surgeries done at their hospital system two of them so with the same doctor at different locations One was $9,000, one was $17,000. Same same procedure, same doctor, different building, almost double the price. That same hospital system had a surgery center that would do that procedure for 3,800. So again, this is the same hospital system, the same quality scores. There is a the 3,800 to $17,000

difference. that's like the CO I was talking about that was actually surprised that it was that like there is just not knowledge that this is happening and so for for the the for the statement of like oh this is just because 2% of the market is doing this if it was 50% the market would change like like the fact that is just one example of one surgery at one hospital their chosen pricing like we need to bring market forces to this to make it work so no prices will become rational which will bring them down okay uh and

by the way I figured out who the uh United version is. This is Sir, which used to be called Shist. Yeah. So Shist is a great concept, right? They're trying to create incentives from my understanding of it. I don't pretend to be an expert, but they're trying to create incentives within the United Network. Like, hey, we we're going to charge you a $2,000 copay to go to that doctor because we'd like to actually go here where it's going to be a $100 copay. That's great. I love that you're

trying to create some incentives with the market. That is on the journey towards where we are, which is a market-based solution. So, that's great. I It would be awesome if people at least do that. And again, it's it's it's grown recently. It's been it's been mind it's grown relatively fast. It's being it's being it's being a cheaper it's being a cheaper product. And the the problem, you know, and there are other people doing variants like we talked about the

navigators who are trying to do that. There's the people who are doing the sort of the uh uh the the uh the networks of excellence approach like uh and I just interviewed one I'm blanking on the name of the guy and the company. Uh I will come back to that one as well. This is the early onset Alzheimer's brain which is you're seeing I'm not sure you have a we have coverage for that. The the issue is there's lots of ways of coming at that and and I think the the the question is you know how do you get

the market to figure out the employer market to move because they have been very slow to move to things that are cheaper. So let's end with the question of going back to sidecar. You've only been doing this a few years. Uh give me a concept of numbers of people coming onto the system, number of employers, the amount of grow you're in a bunch of states now. Uh how how how big have you been and how big how big are you getting? So to the point where you want to be Yeah. I mean, so we're we're eight

years old. We've been in this particular market for what three years. We're in our fourth. We've been more than doubling every year. That's there's no shine and stop sign that's ever going to stop. Like we actually had to change our quoting process because our demand for quotes is too large. So that now we won't quote people that come to us. Like you have to have relationship with us. You have to take a meeting with us. So like we could not be happier. We don't need to be growing any faster. We're

also going to be deliberate. I think some of the things that venturebacked um insurance company in particulars have done is they've grown without um really focusing on profitability. Like MLRs are critically important. Like most Lenovo health insurance companies lose money on MLRs. They're basically buying business. We don't, right? Like so at the end of the day, like our MLRs have been right on target where they need to be three years running. So um like at the end of the day, like we're trying to do

sustainable, profitable growth in markets that we can serve and we like the really fast pace that we're moving at. And how much you guys raised? There was a big round a while back. Yeah. So, we've raised $360 million, which is like one like 15% of our It's not quite Oscar money or clever money yet, I guess. Yeah. Because because again, we don't need to. If you look at their financials, the reason why they had to is to raise that much money is they're losing money on medical expenses when

you're not losing money on medical expenses. You don't need to raise that type of money. But, uh uh when was your last round? Um our last round was a year ago. Okay. Great to hear. Fantastic. So, um, and then give me give me a sense of how many people are on the system now. And, you know, if you're doubling every year, that number is changing, but, uh, what's what's the membership roughly at the moment? Yeah. Big enough to be statistic and material, big enough to cover employees in 47 states. If you're

looking for a specific number, you're going to have to get a pitchbook. All right. I'll see I'll see if I go into that. All right. Brilliant. Okay. I'm join Patrick Quigley. He is the CEO of Psycho Health. Please give us a long demo, long discussion about how we're going to do this. One of the uh many and a very interesting approach is how we're going to fix that whole pricing transparency uh care coverage mess that is the US healthcare system. Very interesting innovative approach.

Patrick, uh thank you for your time. Really fun talking with you. Thanks for the demo and good luck as you keep going forward. Really appreciate it, Matthew. Uh always enjoy the conversation.