Title: Penguin--The Flightless Bird of Health AI

URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uoHS6GXhV7c&t=1s
Language: en
Duration: 00:46:31
Upload Date: Oct 3, 2025

Transcription:

[Music] Hi, Matthew Hall with a TCB spotlight and we are talking with Farad Butt and Missy Kraner from the newish um AI company called Penguin AI which for all the AI companies out there probably has the benefit of having the nicest names. It's named after a small cute little bird that that can't fly.

Um all right, real quick. who Fouad has had a longtime career at uh United Optimum, the big evil company, and then the nice company nonprofit Kaiser, where he was doing AI and digital stuff. Messi is a very old friend of mine who has been uh hanging out since the David Braille days at uh when when the Republicans were sensibleish which is a long time ago uh at uh at ONC as it was then ESTP as it is now but has then gone through Google and Box and Amazon and did a whole thing at redesign doing the founding and somehow at the end of all that has now become a co-founder of this company too. Um, all right. So, let's

start with the with the basics. Clearly, there aren't enough companies calling themselves something AI. You guys just raised an A round of 29 odd million, but you've been doing a little bit for for a while at this stage. For uh what the hell do you guys do and uh give give me a flavor of of what you think the problem is that you're trying to solve? Yeah, look, I think first of all, thank you for the opportunity. Um, looking forward to this conversation.

You know, I think we just figured there weren't enough AI companies out there, so we should find we should we should start one. Um, and why not choose a flightless bird u that that as the company name. Uh, look, despite the cuteness on the name, I think we're here to solve a big and real problem in healthcare.

As most of us are quite aware, the technology in healthcare today is about a generation old. We've put a lot of lipstick on this thing. Um, you know, we took junk that used to be on the mainframes, then we brought it to data warehouses.

Then we took those data warehouses and took them to the cloud and then we bought a bunch of SAS stuff and then there was this whole mobile revolution. All that's been great, but nothing's foundationally structurally changed in healthcare. The underpinning and the technologies is pretty much the same. The skin and the and the front ends have evolved a lot.

um as we sort of look at this point in time, I do firmly believe that there's an inflection point in the industry. There is a new um capability that's available today that we just never had before with generative AI and agents. So the premise of the company is as follows. If we believe that the world is moving towards an agentic architecture and we also believe that health care or or agentic healthcare is inevitable at this point then ultimately if you're a CIO, CEO, CDO, CEO, one of the C combinations of soup out there, the question you're asking yourself is holy cow, I got to build a thousand agents to

modernize my my operation. ations what's the platform and the technology that I'm going to use to enable that transformation and so Penguin AI in the simplest way has built a platform so you can deploy um some out of the box agents that we provide but ultimately be able to build and deploy agents across the enterprise we're built just for healthcare I can't say that enough so we're not an Azure we're not a GCP we're not a a a AWS where we're building horizontal technologies um and then taking it to various industries and asking them to adopt to it. We built this platform ground up to just solve

for healthcare problems. This is my background. This is the work I've done at all of the big names that that you mentioned earlier. But that responsibility and that experience we're bringing into Penguin AI and building a foundational layer and a platform on top of which you can build all the agents and deploy all the agents necessary within healthcare with the privacy with the compliance with the security with the governance with the connectivity to your ecosystem. So that that's that's who we are and that's why we're you know while we have a funny name we have a a

big charter. All right, Missy, why were you imp I mean the amount of companies you have funded, founded, funded, worked at over the last decade is a lot. Why are you so impressed and excited about this one? Yeah, I mean the the origin story for how uh Fouad and I started working together was uh I knew Fouad when I was just a little baby at uh when I took over the box right before we went uh public.

You weren't a baby or something. Okay, well you don't need to call my age out, Matthew. I say you say you say you were a senior citizen collecting social security but we're all the ARP of healthare but I'm getting there very soon sooner than you two.

Yeah, but basically that was like more than a decade and a half ago uh when I was leading the healthcare and life sciences P&L at box and I we had sold a large deployment into Kaiser Permanente and Fawad you know had like 500 people in his or more like 5,000 uh and I had the sort of privilege of of of making him come to dinner at Redwood City and having Aaron Levy shake his hand to just thank him for his business and that was the first time I laid eyes on him and then you know he moved over United and then had some big jobs over at Optum and it wasn't until he uh left those big jobs

and ended up at at at Canvas Ventures, which I used to work at with Rebecca Lynn. You remember the days when we held the TBC VC contact? I still remember the the only wise investment in digital health ever. You and Rebecca, super fun back then with you. You overpaid by a factor of Yes, we did. We did.

But yeah, so Fawad came in after um you know being a chief data officer at three of three of the largest healthcare organizations and sort of you know had to sit on the sidelines for about a year to outlast some of his non-competes and so doing something sort of safe in in the money world. So he joined Canvas right as I was exiting out and we started chatting about what my experience was there when I was doing practice fusion with Rebecca and Doximity and what he then did you know seven companies later and then I was at Redesign and I said hey Fawad redesign needs someone with a sort of the technology prowess and and the sort of

luminary vision that you have because you know we're doing a lot of tech enabled services but we we we want to go deeper into tech. So Fouad sat on our our board, our executive advisory board and helped us think about specifically payer tech and a lot of things in credentiing and he was in a value based care company with me.

And so as he was working his way through venture and did three or four years there, OpenAI came on, chat GTP came on the scene and it was exactly two years ago at JP Morgan where he said, "Let's grab a drink. I'm thinking of getting uh a company going here because this this is something we can do that we've never done before with this technology.

This is going to solve a lot of the problems that I had been trying to solve with my teams. And I have a bench of like a whole bunch of AI traditional AI, ML, and data science experts that worked for me at United that are willing to follow me. And I think it's now time to start a company. You know, 0 to 10 from all your time at Redesign. You're exiting Redesign.

do you want to jump in and help me get this company in market? And that's how this alliance formed. And I've been essentially on the ride for the last two years watching Fawad do his magic. Essentially getting this this this full enterprisegrade platform built, getting our first customers, raising our seed round, and now all the way to our series A. It's just been wonderful to to watch his sort of leadership and and and some of his vision.

And I will say this and Fouad jump in. I would say gosh two years ago when you had this platform concept right that's what I was really attracted to I was like hey a I'm going to learn about a bunch about AI it's like getting an MBA and and AI from Fawad right like but at the same time he was staunch on his vision which was it's platform over point solutions I'm not doing another Gen AI rapper company which just is a bolt-on of workflow to sort of like these large language models that are commercial I do not believe in that I trained a ton of other horizontal tech on healthcare. I'm not going to do that again. I know exactly what I need

to build cuz I've been in that buyer seat and that's what convinced me this is the place that I should spend time. This is the place that I should bet on and betting just on his vision as well. I mean Fouad you can say how many doors we got slammed and those Okay.

Yeah. Okay. We so I came from venture world you know at at canvas for for a couple years and then prior to that I had helped a lot of venture firms Matthew do diligence across the industry on data technologies on governance technologies on observability all the things that happened a decade before I' I'd been involved so I thought I had friends in venture um so I you know I knew people and then when we started to to sort of pitch the idea for Penguin AI and it was a grand vision of building the platform that all other capabilities that we need to transform are are are sit on top of. Um we were

shunned like we were I had a somebody I've made a billion somebody that I think I have contributed a billion dollars in their funds returns based on the advice I've given them essentially told me I was an idiot for doing it right.

So why don't you just go build a prior Roth company and and and generate $100 million in ARR or pick So let me interrupt you. I I think I know why they called you an idiot. It's a bit harsh than an idiot, but you know uh and I' I've you know written a piece about this which is why I think it's very hard to buy and sell AI which is which is that you don't know the capabilities that the that the uh underlying LLMs are going to develop with and you don't know which verticals they're going to go into.

We do know that you know um our old friend Nate just got just moved from Doximity and is now hanging out at this place called Open AI which seems to have some street credit in the the world of AI and you know are they going to be built what who the hell knows what they're going to be building but the concept of doing you know agentic work which you're hearing about from those LLMs is coming is coming for sure if not already here.

Um then you have uh some large vendors in the uh current incumbents. There's one in Wisconsin you may have heard of. Yeah. But now saying we're doing all the AI stuff. You don't worry about it. And then you have as you said a bunch of of what you call point solutions who raised a ton of money. Yeah.

um you know starting with the scribes the but but a bunch of others as well you know who are now doing essentially and and you know your friends at general catalyst have put god knows how many gazillions into kimu at this stage who are doing whatever you want deploying engineers they're talented and I would as a buyer and before I'd go back to when you were a buyer that to me looks very confusing because I'm not sure if you know where if you're going to make a big bet which one you should be betting on and I might just keep hanging out waiting and seeing what I can do with my own resources because it's not really clear that there is a

barrier that one person is now doing I don't know chronic care and somebody else over here is doing uh utilization management and there were boxes before you could draw in a chart and now it's this messy blob. So I love the idea that you you'd want to be the massive underlying platform that does everything but why why would somebody believe you? Well, look, I think the stepping back back a little bit, you know, so I've talked to a 100 plus CIOS, CXOs over the last year alone, right? As you can imagine, we engage with um with with a lot of potential customers. We also had a lot

of VCs have have us talk to some of their partners and so forth. So, we we've gone out there. The most common look I see if you peel the layers, right? All these CXOs sit very prestigiously at these tables and and have a very, you know, very very um robust demeanor, but the most common look I look that I see is called deer in headlights. Sure, it's the confusion.

You peel the layer, they're freaked the hell out underneath it, right? Because everybody's coming at you. Your board is saying you're not doing enough. Your CEO is sending you news stories of your competitors doing stuff. Your business teams all have a solution that they've identified that somebody's pitched to them that they want to implement.

And then um and then ultimately all this demand that you that's coming to you requires you to have talent that you have no business or ability to acquire because Zuckerberg's sending WhatsApp messages to to people. You want people to join Zuckerberg and quit two days later so you can hire them. They've already got their 120 million. Yeah.

But but but that but the game has changed though, Matthew, right? By by that one WhatsApp message that Zuck sent out to the first candidate, he changed the game. And so so we all have to play in this new arena. Uh whether you're United or Elevance or one of the Blue Cross Blue Shield plans or hospital system, you all have to play here.

So So there is epic confusion u pun intended uh there. and and and yes, the Epic did come up uh a couple of weeks ago and sort of outlined their road map. And if you look at it, it seems like they're going to boil the entire ocean all by themselves. And as somebody um or all of us that have been in this industry and as somebody that was at the largest Epic customer in the world uh managing data going in and out of that system, uh I can assure you that I've seen a lot of road maps.

uh I can assure you u that signaling is a lot easier to do than to build product and I can assure you that when you become a large enterprise with hundreds of customers uh on the software side you have legacy debt that you have to contend with before you build anything new. So while I would not doubt Epic's ability to sprint uh I do uh know the reality on the ground very much as well.

So, if you're a CIO and I we had conversation with one yesterday, a CXO and and if your approach is that I'm going to wait for Epic, you know, good for you. God bless you. I I I wish you nothing but the best. I hope your business still exists in 36 to 48 months, uh, you know, financially is is is solvent, uh, by the time these large companies deliver this value. So you don't actually have the optionality that you think you do as a CXO.

You think you can wait and figure this out. But the reality is that the business environment has shifted, right? Look at what's happened at United. A CEO got replaced. A stock went to half. Look at what happens in it happened in in Elevance and CVS stock over the last 18 months. The writing is on the wall.

the the 4% to 6% margin environment after cut after putting paying for MLR and and operating cost is gone. Now you're in a negative 4% margin environment. And the only way you get to survive is to create efficiency in your workflows this year, not three years from now. So, so you know, I've been in in all three chairs.

I've been in the buyer chair. I've been in the investor chair and now I'm in the founder chair. I can assure you that the urgency isn't just on the investment side and the a and the founder side. It is also on the just just what I would say is we started I mean we started two years ago like we officially kind of incorporated in in in in 2024 in like sort of that February March time frame and I would say for like four or five months we were out pitching the platform vision with a with a fully built enterprisegrade solution.

This company did some something very different. This company has such a deep bench of talent and it it it's got a a huge engineering and data science bench. So product was built and we had to go out and test the market and figure out how to sell it. The market was super nent and it's still evolving.

The buyers were like very interested in AI pilots and figuring out administratively what some of those lowhanging fruit use cases were beyond describing or in basket management that a lot of the EHRs and some of the larger scribing companies were doing.

And so what we were trying to figure out in that first sort of seven to eight months when all the VCs were like, "Oh, you're too hottie. You think that you can create a platform. What platforms in healthcare have succeeded? Give me one example." And they would, you know, they'd call out innovion. Yeah. Right. Healthy. Wait, that's for the That's the uh That's the one from the archives for the for the young. There you go. That's for the Yeah, that's for the That's for us. Look that one up.

But I mean the point here is is that the market the market may be buying point solutions right now. They might be buying a cohair. They might be buying a Navenina uh or a tenor. But at some point as the market evolves, do you want eight or nine of those point solutions or do you want to be thinking about all the things around AI and model drift and compliance and governance and with a platform that has connectors out to data that can deidentify that data that can do synthetic data creation if needed. There's a whole bunch of things that the enterprise has to think about

rather than just I need a um solution or a prior off solution or I need HCC coding or I need medical coding whatever it is and it's not to say that any of those point solutions are going to be disbanded or they're not going to grow horizontally.

It's just that when we because we have platform capabilities, the land and expand enterprise sell is generally where I think Fawad being in the buyer seat and talking to other buyers is essentially credible. And that's that's where I think now fast forward year, you know, a year and a half later, our series A went fast because now there are people investing in the platform concept. There's three or four other platform players out there. At least they're walking the platform walk.

They've got some language. I don't think they have the tooling yet. And that's what I think is the change in the market. I mean, Fawad, we watched this happen in front of our own eyes, right? Look, I we went from you're idiots for wanting to do something this broad and and yes, you you know, sure, you may be able to say you've done this at large enterprises before, but you never built a company that can do this from ground up. you know, you're an idiot to oh my god, we've always had a thesis on platform. Uh we like it it literally

turned in. How many former olive clients were you talking to with this guy? Look, so look there there there are companies out there that have sullied the healthcare platform market, right? And and you name some of those already, not just one, but more than one. And and it seems like they're all being funded by the same VC firm, too.

uh but uh but you know I assume I assume you'd be around us not being led by him in that case after that comment. Look you know I I love VCs that enable and support our industry and I think him is one of those. So nothing but mad respect for him. But but you know at the same time we have to live in the world of reality and and recognize when things didn't succeed and then learn from them as to why they didn't succeed instead of just sort of putting another coat of wash on it and calling it you know mission accomplished. All right. So so so let let's let's say I accept your argument. You need a cross

enterprise platform that can do everything can put its tentacles everywhere and you can build the applications on top of um and that you know go back to Judy Fulton's grand vision that's basically what she built for providers right um there's a set of questions you mentioned a couple of customers you you got in the press release you didn't have customers but you have uh blues of New Jersey Horizon and uh and UPMC on on the docket one one of them I believe has is a health insurance company. Other one is has everything including private jets.

So what what is who do you think the customers are? Is it basically payers or is it going to be everybody? You're going to be on both sides of what I used to call when when I when I used to talk to Andy Slavit when he was in Gen X. I said, "So you're an arms dealer because you're selling to both sides.

" So I so I use that word and I my PR team kept keeps telling me not to use that word, but I'm the arms dealer in the agentic healthc care space. Okay. So look at me, remember my face, you know, know my company. If you're going to play in this space, you need to come talk to me. Freddy Mercury will write a song about you soon enough. Yeah, that's probably true.

So remember one from the Queen album. Yeah. So, so look the the what it's been kind of interesting to see the progression to be honest because the markets evolve so quickly and and we've seen the the buyers go from u you know sort of being suspicious of this AI thing to wanting to try it to knocking down the doors to saying what else can you do.

So it's really just happened I would say in the last 12 months mostly what we see um is an opportunity both on the payer and the provider side and I think it's a false separation between the two sides because processes either start on one and end on the other or or vice versa. Um so so what we're what we what we saw Matthew was that earlier part of this year I would say January February March time frame the provider side of the house was extremely active and and open to doing the pilots and trying out the ideas and we saw a number

of customers come to us um and and get into quick what we call proof of values which tend to be about 90 days long on average and most of those we with the exception of one where the CIO um was uh you know left the company so we had to rebuild the relationship every one of those converted uh after the after the 90 or so days of of POVs because we could show the ROI we could show the value so the providers actually ended up adopting a lot quicker the pairs we we're talking to actually from last quarter four of last year and what we saw with them was they had to get their

strategy in place. They had to hire their talent teams. They had to get the budgets approved from their committees. They had to get McKenzie or Deoid or you know Accenture to come and do an assessment. So they were kind of going through that process.

But that shifted I would say in Q2 of 2025 where the payers started to show the same acceleration that we saw from the provider side in the earlier part of the year. So, we're seeing the payers catch up. And I think part of the reason that's happening, there's an urgency there is because the providers have deployed the agents already and they're appealing the hell out of every denial that's that that the payer is sending them.

And the and the payers are still using humans and data warehouses and old workflow tools to deal with the 100% appeals rates that are that are popping up. So, there's a there's an urgency on the pair side to catch up. one side has better weapons or you know agentic tools than than the other does and so everybody's got to catch up.

I mean, Matthew Fawad has been saying that the agent wars are not coming, they're here between provider and payer. And you know, early on we also got sort of laughed at because they were like, "Oh, you know, you you need ruthless focus. You're you're a startup. Why how can you sell across payer and provider? I mean, FAD's both a provider and payer guy.

Kaiser was was both and you know, United Optimum. Optum has thousands and thousands of providers that they know. I saw a congressional committee where apparently there were hardly any. Oh yes. Yes. This is true. Hardly any at all. Don't trust old British guys. The point is is that if you're if you're if you're looking at administrative processes like we're not talking we're not trying to be you know hypocr hypocratic.

We're not trying to be a nurse but if you're looking at sort of administrative processes the workflow is similar. It just starts at different sides with provider and payer. So it is interesting and like just to be clear those early provider customers have been agile customers.

They've been you know on the on the practice side or they've been sort of large private equitybacked home health uh you know there there there's like a basket of what we what what we've been able to sort of go fast and pilot with on the provider side. I think large academic medical centers, health systems, IDN's, they're still also trying to figure out beyond what Epic and or Cerner may be feeding them and beyond just sort of some some small stuff that they're doing on inbound faxing and comms, right? Marketing and comms.

They're trying to figure out, hey, how do we how do we govern here? How do we make sure that we're using AI? And they're the most confused. I'm sorry to jump in, but I I will just say that, you know, when I say you there's a deer in headlight looks, I think the ID the the delivery networks, the cure delivery organizations, especially the the medium to larger size ones, um are probably the most paralyzed right now.

So, can can you guys uh name some names on customers on both sides of the moment? We we will have around we will have announcements coming in um in the next 60 days or less. You you Amando has been teaching you well. You tell them about the go back and tell them about the product. Then you tell them about the customers. I'm an old dog. I'm an old dog. I've done this for a long time.

So So let let's let's let's go to the the the type of stuff. So there's two things going on now. You know perfectly well that when I'm dictator um we're going to have kings here. Apparently we you know I might as well be the next one because the the current I think we might be there current guy apparently has got god knows what is about to drop off at any moment.

um we're going to get we have this ridiculous fight which you are now putting yourselves in the middle of right which is over the 2% up or down now there's two things going on right one is can I deny deny can I can I bump your MLR up can you bump mine down yesed stock price went down because they claimed to be be able to manage care and they they couldn't I mean Len Schaefer said he could manage care for wellpoint 20 years ago and it was all then you know so no one actually knows what's going on in the health group so there's a whole bunch of work going on there. So, number one, that fight is kind of a silly fight, but it is

obviously one that's attracting a ton of effort and a ton of attention and politics. And yes, there must be a bunch of admin waste attached to all of that, which I'm sure AI can get rid of. But once you've kind of done that and everyone's got their agendics going each other about denials and claims and whatever, and comes to whatever conclusion they come to, where does this AI stuff really actually start moving the needle or making any of the stuff better? Yeah, look, I think so.

It's it's easy to get up caught up in the technology and and forget the human stories, right? So, um I don't tell this story. I don't think I've ever told this story in public, but um there's a I have a personal story that I that I that drove me to accelerate this work for me, right? I have a um I I'm an im immigrant.

I came to the US uh at the immigrants coming to America. That's right. taking all your jobs. Uh so uh and I've taken a few. So uh so look I you know I came here I didn't u have a you don't have a structure when you land here by yourself. So you your friends and and the network you build become your family. And I had a person like that in my life.

Um his name was Allen. And Allen and I grew up together. um pretty much got married around the same time, had kids around the same time, and make a long story short, Allan was diagnosed with cancer. And Allan was a carpenter uh ran his own small business, you know, did a lot of uh carpentry work um for for uh for for homeowners as well as businesses.

Um, but I saw how he suffered through especially the last 30 days of his life. Uh, when the doctors knew he wasn't going to make it, they uh, all he needed during that time, Matt, was a specialized bed that could be delivered to his house that he could rest in for the last 30 days of his life. and the administrative that took place between the patient, the peer, and the provider.

Um, netted in the bed never showing up and Allen passing away on a lazy boy-like chair because that was the only place that could give him a moment of comfort when he was in that severe pain. So, so when we talk about this admin burden, this isn't just some dollars and cents and margin on on a payer or or a provider's balance sheet.

This is people's lives that that are impacted when a day or a week or a month goes by and you don't get the one thing that you need and it is the point in time where you need it the most. So, so yeah, I think this is going to make an impact. But I mean, you know what? You, you know, I've heard the Allen story just privately, and I'm glad that you're sharing it here, you know, and and and and I'll hearken back to the first, you know, two years ago drink that we had when you're like, I'm doing this.

Now's the time. I I'm ready. I'm going to, you know, I'm going to be a first-time founder. I've done everything else. And you said, this keeps me up at night. I was like, are you sure? Like, this this is like unsexy, you know, in the boughels of healthcare stuff. You sure you want to do this? This is the stuff that keeps me up at night. This will be my last contribution.

Uh this is where I want to make my mark. I want to solve this because I tried to solve it in my three other jobs. And I, you know, I mean, Matthew, I went away and I was like, I don't know if this stuff keeps me up at night, but I certainly want to help solve it and my par my family's been impacted by it.

But to your question, none of our pilots or proof of values, none of them are done without a list of ROI that we're trying to measure by the end of the 30, 60, 90day time. And that's depending on if we're giving them a digital worker or an agent or we're giving them, you know, they're importing some of their data in and we're helping them fine-tune something, what whatever it may be. It's generally around time savings.

If it's medical coding, it's around uh uh like you know money saved per quarter, if it's uh if it's around risk coding, I mean there are specific things that we're trying to prove and show and a lot of it has to do with speed, speed to decision, right? On denials, it's it's which denials are you going to pursue at a higher rate, right? And all of those things kind of get care faster, right? It helps unbburden the provider and unburden the patient. So we see the downside effect but there are hard things that we're measuring. We will not convert a pilot without hitting

those milestones. So there has to be some kind of lift, right? I mean and the and the lift we see is on clinical staff, right? That is so peers employ a lot of clinical staff just like providers employ a lot of clinical staff. This staff is primarily reviewing documents and making decisions based on the information submitted.

So, so we do see um one impact is that fewer clinicians can do more highquality work so that some of those can be redeployed to actually coordination of care and other capabilities that are necessary. Um because because there's a dynamic tension. I was talking to a I was talking to a CEO of a health plan in the Blue Cross Blue Shield network and and he said, "Hey, I have a $38 million clinical cost uh on an annual basis.

" And and I said, "How much clinical work are you doing with that? That's pretty substantial." And uh it's a regional plan for in one state. And and he said, "10% of that is actually going towards care coordination. 90% of that is being used to review claims, to review payments, to review prior rots and and that's it. Look, we have 960 or 70,000 active physicians in this country.

And if we take taking some of them and keep deploying them towards admin tasks, we're not doing ourselves any service. Yeah. Look, I I have the solution to that, which we'll have to wait till we have to go and wait till I I'm king.

But I've wr I've written that up about we just give all the primary care doctors, people with vouchers and away we go. But um that it what you say is true, right? We call it admin waste, but there is a ton of patient frustration. I mean, I wrote up this jokey thing when I was trying to get myself into uh you know, I actually had a prior off from Blue Shield, which I was just trying to get the damn referral done from primary care doc through to the cardiology clinic.

you know, three calls, 500 ring to to email sent, faxes, whatever, before I actually got through the gate and did it. And yeah, a ton of people would have given up. And in my case, if I'd given up, I'dn't have found something that was quite bad.

So, you know, I bet you that the admin stuff you're talking about does have real human impacts all over the place. Not to mention people who get denied care, which you know, they through need and etc. So that I mean if the agentic stuff you're doing can clean that up both on the on the waste side, you know, the waste emotion of the people on hold with with uh you know, human whatever line I I'm I'm all for it, but but are you going to stay in that world or the the more clinical world where you're where you know you you you said Missy, we're not going to go to the hypocratic or ellipsis world, but there are clin there are some more clinical use

you got are you going to because in the end this stuff is all you know somebody I'm in the middle of whatever I get I I would just give you example I got the result back that I got from my cardiology clinic and look I read it and then I happen to have a client who's a senior cardiologist so he read it but I also gave it a chat GD GBT but now Epic says they're going to come up with you know explanations that using AI how far are you going to go that path of like using the the tools and the AI and the platform to help clinicians, help

patients, you know, deal with that understanding what's going on. Look, I think, you know, we I I would say we're starting with the administrative side just because there's a trillion plus there that that could be easily improved. So, so I think, you know, when there's a 20% of the of our spend is on the admin side.

I think you start cleaning that up, it actually has downstream impacts on clinical outcomes even though it's not clinical by itself. The second thing we're probably going to do is go clinically adjacent, right? Where where there are lots of clinical information that is used to make decisions, but they're not um they're not clinical decisions or they're not patient next best actions for patients.

I think they're they're in support of a nurse, they're in support of a uh you know, a PA, they're in support of some of the other staff there. I think there's opportunity there. I don't have a conceptual issue going into clinical. Ultimately, the challenge I have, Matthew, is you got to be right 100% of the time when you're doing clinical, right? So, the efficacy of the intelligence and the models you use has to be has to be of highest quality.

And if you ask me today, if if the models that exist today, whether they're the large models, you know, from one of the the foundation labs or smaller models, um I think it's I think it's um it's tough to find a um a a reasonable amount of accuracy in a consistent basis to be able to turn that on for for for actual patients.

I do agree that people are going to chat GPT independently and so are the doctors and they're putting a lot of this information in there. Um, you know, I just don't feel comfortable selling a solution today in in in September of 2025 that I feel a generative solution that I feel good about that that could be used for purely clinical uh decision- making. So that that's the only thing that I'll add to that though is is that Fawad puts tooling that a clinician may use to sort of you know help be able to view view the salient facts in a medical record or even scribing. Not that we're doing scribing but scribing as well. those are

administrative in in his bucket, right, in his mind, cuz they're essentially tools that are helping clinicians go faster, make decisions faster, service the patients better, um versus a fully clinical use case like using AI to determine sepsis or there's a lot of fantastic uh AI companies out there and our friends over at Hopper that are doing radiology and building foundation models in radiology that's fully clinical and more diagnostic.

I think there are definitely things FAD that you know you and the team have that are in the the Bailey wick of what you would call administrative that are much more closer to the clinician and that user as opposed to someone who's just in a call center or working claims. Correct. I think there are lots of things we can do to enable clinicians.

I just don't think we are ready to replace or or or augment clinicians using the current generative technology. Maybe that'll evolve in 18 24 36 months and then we'll have a different conversation. But I live in the world that we we are today and I think I'm more comfortable being in the support of clinicians uh and capacity for clinicians versus augmenting of clinicians. Yeah.

Look, I think there's a big conversation that is h happening um and it's already h it's already, you know, passed law in Illinois about how much can a purely AI platform do can it do therapy? Can it do this? Can it do that? And and the answer is uh I don't know if you guys have run into um Steve Brown lately.

I did an interview with him from uh real OG from the health hero days and you know he's got five 25 different clinicians built on god knows how many LLMs playing a role and helping with his cancer you know that I think there that is real that is really really clinical and you know maybe pretty good. So, but I think there it's ethical questions that we and training questions and change management questions that have to play a role here because I can also tell you that I've had data at one of my jobs where when we enable clinicians to with

a highly qualified non-generative AI, they stop looking at stuff. They just stop clicking accept except accept. So, I think there I think there's a balance there in terms of using it. Yeah, I completely agree. We don't we we are we have as a society let alone in healthcare I mean I know there's chai and people trying to work on this and a lot of smart people think about and and we support that work and we're part of that but as a society as a whole we haven't got past we haven't looked over the power about what this is going to do to

all kinds of things and that's you know and crazily we're having stupid other let's not get into the politics of today we're having a bunch of conversations that we shouldn't be having in order and we're not having that one which really is probably the most important one for you know not only our generation with the people coming below us.

But having said that, um I you know there is so much in the kind of administrative crap that as you said has a clinical impact that yes, you could be super busy for the next five years just fixing god knows how many processes within health plans and I don't know if you follow this.

I'm doing I'm doing one about Blue Shield pay Blue Shield and Brandon Towland paying or not paying lab core for my lab for like me getting a $35 bill and I'm into like hour six of like my conversation with them about trying to hunt down why is this being charged at this rate and nobody knows.

It's very What do you think the cost is to the pair for that entire direct? Put it this way. If somebody gets the 35 bucks out of me eventually I don't think it's going to cover what I've got. That's exactly my point. that that's what's happening. We have bulk and fat built into the system which is which is driving the wrong incentives in terms of both payer and provider behavior. So I do think that you take the admin burden and you simplify it.

Not only do you get care to patients in in a in a direct way much sooner, but you also change some of the incentives that are driving the behavior. And it does give you a chance. I'm sure though I can well and and Matthew I mean go ahead with it's going to be very interesting what we're going to see in healthcare in the next two to three years because of what's happening uh politically and at the administrative level governmentwise you've you you know it's going to take a while for the safety net and all the Medicaid erosion to sort of take place and in my prediction at that point when

when we see that nationally and individually in different states because different states are going to respond in different ways you're now going to see a big cost cost sharing, right? So, it's all going to go to the folks that have commercial insurance, right? That need to sort of figure out how to keep safety net alive or keep people that are coming in off the streets, you know, in some kind of emergency situation being hit by a car. Sure, CMS has got this sort of like interesting bill that they're trying to like buttress up CM, you know,

some of the safety net, but I think what's going to happen is you're going to even have more downward pressure, right, on efficiency and operations. there's going to be more appetite for how can AI really sort of start solving some of the administrative burden.

It's only going to get worse particularly when I mean we just we just I can't remember if it was an AON report or a Mackenzie report but there was just singling that uh all of the employers and the brokers are getting hit with a pretty significant rise. Yeah. Right. I mean this is just going to go on. We're going to have more people uninsured. Right.

Um, and so I I I mean we we've got the California Healthcare Foundation. They're uh one of our funders. They came in our early seed fund and they participated in the A and their interest is the sort of AI divide between sort of the the safety net and commercial healthcare.

And I think this is a this is something that is going to come up time and time again in the next two to three years as we see some of the decisions that are going to be played out from the policy side really take place in healthcare today. And there's only more opportunity for a company like Penguin AI and others that are going to try to solve some of this administrative burden, take some of this fat out, right? Yeah.

I mean, look, it it's it's clearly, you know, you got to hope it's got to be done, but I think in the end, um, the admin, you're talking about the user experience being fixed and the users are there are three types of users, right? There's patients, there's clinicians and their staff, and then there's the poor people sitting in the call centers and on the, you know, doing the and the poor person has to answer my call about the 36 to $34 charge or whatever, you know, all all of the above are none of them are having a good time, right? Well, look, I I I I look at our job as

not just technology and not just the admin burden. I think those are the actual things we do. But what if you ask me, what do we really do? We're trying to preserve dignity for people who are sick, right? Not put them through this process where where, you know, even experts like you are frustrated with the system and and spending, you know, all you want is the care you deserve and your doctor has prescribed you and the insurance company has agreed to pay for. That's all you want.

And so all this jumping of hoops through the middle is administration. And and if there's one thing we can do to not just improve the patient experience but to preserve human dignity is to is to make that better. So that's a great point to end on.

I think um you know that is what we're trying to do from improve prove human dignity and uh hopefully we can do that with technology. Um, so we've heard a really good argument from Penguin about why they need to be why they need to be a platform play, why it can be used by both sides, why that uh why they believe that some of some of the some of the people doing the point solutions will uh not be the endial solutions.

And we, you know, it's going to be a fun time for the next few years for those of us cheering from the sidelines and uh enjoying to see how this how this actually all plays out. Let let's hope after all the money is spent and you know all the craziness that goes on at at all the conferences and everything else that we actually start to make a make a real difference in this and I hope you guys are in the forefront.

Brilliant. Rob, I have been speaking with Bart and Missy Kraner. They are respectively CEO and senior adviser co-founder. Some nebulous title that Missy's made up for herself at Penguin AI. I just had a uh $29 million series A you heard about and looking forward to seeing how you guys develop, get get announcing some clients, get showing me some technology. I look forward to catching up.

Thank you, Matthew. Thank you. Such a pleasure as always.
