Title: Peter Stetson, Tiger Connect
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YUn7lg_sMOg
Language: en
Duration: 00:17:29
Upload Date: April 18, 2026

Transcription:

Matthew Hulk. I'm on the H show floor.   This is the Tiger Connect where you find   there's Tiger Connect. Tiger Connect   booth. This is Peter Stson. Peter is the   CMIO, chief medical information officer   at Tiger Connect. Before that was the   CMIO at Sloan Kellering New York. Big   famous hospital for North Cancer.

Um but   these days you're working with Tiger.   How long you been there, Peter? I've   been uh with Tiger Connect for about six   months now.   >> Okay. So, you're pretty new in the   business. Tiger Connect is in the   business of connecting people, which I   guess is what Meta or Facebook says it   does or whatever.   >> But uh go a layer deeper.

I know that BA   has been   >> organic uh products and there's been   some acquisitions.   >> Give me the sort of paniply of of and it   used to be, you know, doctors texting   nurses. Yep.   >> What is it now? What's the what's the   the range? We're an AI powered platform   that connects people to improve outcomes   for our patients, improve patient   throughput and improve operational   efficiency for health systems.

Uh and we   specialize in focusing on healthcare   communication and the orchestration of   that. So we have a platform that enables   workflows for doctors to talk to   doctors, nurses to talk to doctors,   nurses and nurses and increasingly   devices and rooms are now part of the   care team talking to us uh with all the   beeps and boops that they can make.

And   we try to connect all of that up and   make sure that the right signals getting   to the right person at the right time so   we can take the best care of the   patients that are in our hands.   All right. So what when you were a do   when you were Cly MO and also a doctor   >> um what what are the underlying   communication problems there is? I mean   for instance I see a uh device there on   the desk which is a patient call bell   when they're in a hospital.

There's   obviously a lot of communication with   patients outside the hospital outside   the clinic. There's a lot of problems in   uh patients navigating their way around   this and doctors communicating with   other clinical professionals and admin.   what's the really the big problem area   that Tiger has faced?   >> So our special contribution in the space   is knowing the right person to   communicate with at the right time and   in the right setting and in the right   way.

So take that nurse call button that   you just uh took a a glance at there.   Um, sometimes that's used to notify the   nurse that the patient has pain. Okay,   that's a notification that should go to   the nurse for them to act on right away   if it's out of whack. But sometimes   that's used, for example, to   because the patient needs help ordering   their food for tomorrow morning.

That's   not really a nursing activity. That's   actually a food and nutrition and diet   activity. And if the nurse is tied up   doing that kind of work instead of   admitting the next really sick patient   out of the emergency room or the really   sick patient out of the ICU, that's time   away from those sick patients.

So our   job is to route those automatically to   the right person at the right time,   knowing the context of what that message   is so that the highest signal to noise   ratio pertains in every way that we   communicate out. So I can imagine   there's a lot of areas across healthare   where that's important right where   you're   >> this is 100% and this is how the company   has evolved we've realized that this   problem of right time right person right   escalation   pervades every aspect of a patient's   journey so this happens at home uh I   need to get EMS   comes to my emergency medicine services   comes to my house they need to know   which hospital to take me to depending   on the condition that I have.   >> Uh so it begins all the way in the home   setting maybe that could even be   detected early. So if the patient has   monitors at home, uh is living well at

home but has some kind of abnormal   signal like their blood pressure is out   of whack or their oxygen level goes   down, we could actually activate care a   lot sooner, move it, we call it pushing   it to the left. It's still a problem in   the hospital if you've had a loved one   in the hospital.   >> You get all these doctors and nurses   walking in and out and they don't know   what's going on and they don't talk to   each other and they and you're asking   for help and you go hours without   getting help. We solve that. After   you're in the hospital, maybe you go to   a clinic visit. You get to the clinic   visit, they aren't coordinated. you're   supposed to get your labs first and then   see the doctor, but they're not ready   for you in the lab area. And like all of   this adds waste.   It actually reduces the quality of care   that we provide to our patients. It's   expensive for the hospitals because it's   cost that could be come out of the   system. That cost gets transferred onto

the patients who have to pay the bills.   So this this happens all the way through   the patient journey. And so our   evolution as a company has worked   towards orchestrating that right time,   right person, right communication for   critical, for non-critical and for   subcritical notifications like somewhere   in between.

And uh uh we see tremendous   value for our customers in this. So   they've seen uh improvements in what we   call door to needle time. So if you're   familiar with this concept of uh time is   tissue. So if you're having a heart   attack, minutes matter, seconds matter.   >> We show reductions in time to treatment,   time to early diagnosis for our   customers.

That helps uh the patients   obviously and but it also saves costs   for them. It saves cost for the   hospital. It allows the hospital to get   that patient out and well quickly and   get the next patient in there that's   waiting for a bed. So this has a real   hard ROI proposition to it as well.   >> So give me an example or a case study of   how you actually do that.

You mentioned   the the person calling for the nurse   pain versus calling the same button for   uh for you know finishing lunch or   whatever.   >> Yeah,   >> maybe that's the case. Give it how how   do you distinguish what the request is   in different modes? Maybe that's a   different example you have.   >> Yeah.

So a really good example would   come from uh so and this is where we   have some case study uh proof points is   um if you've ever been in the hospital   and observed   uh patients who are coming in for   surgery. If you've ever had surgery or a   loved one who've had surgery, you know   how complicated that is to set up.   There's a visit in the clinic ahead of   time.

There's imaging that has to be   done. You might need some pre-operative   laboratories done. You might need an   X-ray done. You might need an EKG done.   And then on the day of you come into the   parop space and that you have to resign   the consent. They have to make sure   they're operating on the right side, not   the left side.

Um all of and then   they're waiting around for the surgeon   or they have the wrong equipment in the   e in the operating room for that surgeon   for that surgery. This is all wasted   time.   So what we have been able to do is   ensure that all the different team   members, the parop nurse, the physician   assistant that's doing the intake, the   surgeon, the um materials supply person,   the path lab, the radiologist who might   need to be on call are all on the same   page so that the patient is rolled in   ready and then the surgeon is notified   that the patient's in the room and not   before. So in the old days, the surgeons   wouldn't even know when the patient's   really ready. So then they'd be then the   nurse would be waiting around for the   surgeon to show up to do the surgery.

Nowadays, we can say, "Hey, the the   patient is ready. You can come down, see   them. We'll get and then the next time   the patient's in the room, they're   ready. You can come down. We can do the   timeout. confirm that the patient's   ready to rock and roll.   This is better for the patient because   it means that all the services are   orchestrated around their their   peroperative time period.

It's better   for the hospital because it's a sequence   of events that has to be orchestrated.   In the absence of this kind of   orchestration,   you have thousands of bed days that are   wasted in the O suite. This is just one   of a number of examples uh where we've   worked   >> what's actually triggering when you say   getting them on the same platform what's   triggering these sequences?   >> Well, in the case of like a better   example for a trigger would be a rapid   response function.

>> So, we have a number of use cases that   we support with rapid response. Stroke,   heart attack,   >> sepsis. Those are some of the three that   we do. Uh, and so what's a trigger   can be um the   clinician at the bedside saying I'm   looking at this patient right now and   I'm they are their blood pressure is   low, their heart rate is high, they have   a fever, they have pneumonia.

Uh we I'm worried they're going septic.   I might need to transfer them to the   ICU. So there's a way to either on your   app say, "Hey, I want the sepsis team.   I'm calling a sepsis rapid."   >> So in the past that meant we had to pick   up the phone. We had to call the   operator.

We had to say, "I don't know   who's on call for the sepsis team, but I   need them in seventh floor, room 22."   Right?   >> And then they would have to go and look   it up on a schedule which might be in an   Excel file and then they might get the   wrong doctor on the line and then they'd   have to call a different doc. It's a   game of telephone.

>> With our system, we know exactly who's   covering sepsis for that day. It might   be night time, might be weekend, might   be daytime.   So when we call or when we press a   button and say I need the the sepsis   team, it automatically knows who's on   the sepsis team and pages them and uh   texts them with uh or messages them to   say come now 7th floor room 207 and   >> so basically everyone on the in in the   right   >> status within the hospital is on is on   the system somewhere.

>> Correct.   >> So a number a number of the triggers can   be automated too. So we're in exploring   full automation.   >> I assume that you know that first   trigger creates some creates and then   you mentioned the AI thing.   >> But we're also working off of device   triggers too now. So bedside monitors   can detect these kind of even earlier   take the human out of it and intercept   it even earlier.

So we're listening to   those two and those can act as triggers   to automate the same activity.   >> So let me ask you the uh the big   question. there if they come in the   middle of the room you you're well   called epic which uh manages manages the   EMR for   >> yeah I many if not all people I'm sure   you put it in   >> yeah I help to I help my teams help   install it everywhere else on Karing and   how so there is a question now right   with uh them working on AI and this that   and the other working partners etc etc   as to who does what right this messy   world how do you stake out what Tiger   connect is doing versus what the epic   and the other EMRs   where do you start and they stop and is   that a messy is that a messy ongoing   conversation or is that relatively clear   to you?   >> Yeah, that's a really good question. Um,   so we have a number of customers that   have a source of truth for their system   of record, whatever ehr they have. Could   be Epic, could be Cerner, Metitech, all

of it. We have many customers of all of these kinds. What we handle that's a   little bit different than um messaging   back and forth around a specific patient   asynchronously between like a doctor and   a doctor is we handle the urgent   escalation for life critical and near   critical adverse events uh prevention by   activating in addition to and beyond the   EHR.

So the EHR, secure chat and inbox   type messages like they're really like   email those are good for patient   specific but not not urgent   communication in particular because the   clinicians are not always tied   >> to the electronic health record. We   don't want them tied all the time to the   electronic health record. However, if   they are on call for a stroke service or   the heart attack cardiology team, they   are on call.

You need some kind of   notification that pushes through all the   noise to say we need you in the   emergency room. Inbound stroke patient   coming in or inbound heart attack   patient. So that's that form of   communication. those urgent emergent   workflows are ones that we support that   boost the investment in the electronic   health records.

There's another form of   communication that we call clinical   operations communication which are the   things that happen around the care   teams. They're clinical support but uh   imagine let's say a patient's coming in   for a chemotherapeutic infusion.   >> Uh the pharmacists need to get the   medicines ready.   That's a highly orchestrated event   because you have to prep the med just at   the right time and get the medication   into the bag into the arm of the of the   patient when they are in the chair, not   2 days before, not two days after. So   that's like   operational support around uh   >> and that doesn't live in the EMR   sticky notes and don't know what else   >> phone calls   >> faxes and pages and all this kind of   stuff. So we call that clinical   operations work also highly critical for

patient flow. So we help support those   things.   >> Fantastic. I think it's a great idea. Uh   finally on target connect the company I   know you only been there a few months   and you're not you're not officially on   the business side but give me a sense of   the scale and what you can tell me about   I know you guys have been around for a   while you made a bunch of acquisitions   in recent years give me a sense of I   forget the I forget if you got guys got   bought by private equity group or not   but what can you tell me about the   company how many people you got how many   customers uh systems are you serving   give me a sense of the favor and scale   what you know about revenue and funding   that kind of stuff.   >> Yep. Uh so first off strategically we've   evolved away from just being a   pointto-point MD tomd communication   solution to now supporting smart room   device integration with AI empowered   orchestration across all of that. So uh   our offerings are much more

comprehensive, mature all the way   through the patient journey that I   mentioned.   >> Yeah.   >> Prehosp post discharge clinic. Um the company is currently about 280 290   employees.   Uh I lead a clinical informatics team   within that uh which supports   implementation, postco live optimization   and ROI impact evaluation.   Uh we serve about 7,000 different   customers. We're in about 700 hospitals   or health systems at this point. Uh we   have 10 12 different modules that are   connected on our   >> orchestration engine which we call care   conduit which is AI powered.

>> Um is there more that I can tell? Remind   me where you are in your where you are   when you're talking about funding and if   you have any view any statements about   revenue. I forget how much you raised. I   vaguely think that you guys got quad or   private equity company. I might maybe   that up.   >> Yeah.

Uh we we are a a company within   the healthcare portfolio with uh Vista   Equity Partners.   >> Yes. And uh that was about three or four   years ago. And uh   >> presumably at some stage you're going to   grow enough and spit you out. I hear I   hear I hear I hear that eventually these   guys may want their money back.   >> Yeah.

No the we are very happy to be   part of the Vista Equity Partners   portfolio and they're a great partner   for us and the resources they bring for   us are actually very helpful to us as a   early stage company.   >> Like literally well I'm speaking with   Peter Stson who's the CMIO of Talia   Connect.   >> Peter, thanks for explaining.

Thanks for   your time. Thank you very much.