Title: Philippe Pouletty, Carvolix
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1m44r7h85tQ
Language: en
Duration: 00:49:45
Upload Date: April 21, 2026

Transcription:

Hi, Matthew Hull with the healthcare   blog and I have another THTV spotlight.   slightly unusual because we're diving   into the world of medical technology   which isn't something we fa feature that   much on THCB but obviously is being much   more influenced by the emerging uh waves   of AI and it's also something of   personal interest as many of you who've   been following me know I have got some   hot issues myself and I want to   introduce you to Philipe Pleti um Phipe   is hanging out in Guadaloop at the   moment Guadalupe at the moment which is   one of those nice French territories   but he is a very experienced uh MD,   venture capitalist and entrepreneur from   from France and we're going to talk   about uh his new company Carl Volix   which is uh doing some very interesting   stuff in the areas of of uh of   cardiology as you may guess. But Philipe   uh first welcome on THCB. Um thanks   thanks for joining me.   >> Thank you. And let's let's start. You've   been uh you're a a doctor, but you also

have been a a venture capitalist and a   company found all the rest of it. And   one of your more more successful   ventures um is the company Abby, which   is publicly traded. So just give me a   little flavor of your background. How   did you get from being a a simple doctor   into being into founding companies and   doing venture capital, especially as we   here in Europe there is no venture   capital. It's all in America.

So   >> Sure. Well, I'm a French Californian, so   I spent 13 years in Silicon Valley.   >> You got infected by the virus. That's   the   >> That's right. Uh first, uh doing   research at Stanford uh and I'm a member   of the hall of fame of inventors of   Stanford University and then starting   companies.

So I'm a pathological   entrepreneur uh who likes to start from   scratch companies uh which can be   revolutions for healthcare. And I went   back to France with family uh thinking   that I could help France and Europe uh   to emerge a little better like Silicon   Valley and California in the field of   venture capital novel companies.

Uh   France has been very effective inventing   new technologies. uh as example the   total artificial heart was born in   France. The so-called carpontier Edwards   heart valves were invented in France.   The TV transa valve replacement was   invented in France. So uh there is a lot   of skills for inventions where it's more   difficult it's to transform these   inventions into real successful   companies and my experience in   California and for the last 20 years in   France are helping us change the   situation so that we don't have to sell   early on uh the company uh to the big uh   US companies or soon to Chinese   companies, which would be even worse.

>> Well, I'm glad you decided which of you   know which which is the greater evil of   the two great Satans. Yes.   Okay. Um, speaking of somebody who got   infected by the California valve very   early, California virus very early in   life and has not managed to shed it yet.   I'm I'm I'm amused, but I think the   British have got the the same issue.

So   uh before we get into carbolics which is   the the the one we're going to talk   about today just tell me a little bit   about Abbyax which is your sort of big   success story.   >> Yeah Abbyax was started from scratch uh   to address very big medical need in   chronic inflammatory diseases and we   succeeded to do the biggest uh urinex   which is the European stock market IPO.

uh then uh we conducted development of   the drug obasimod from free clinical to   successful phase three trial. We took   the company public on NASDAQ in 2023   which was a very tough time October 23   and now the company has reached a   valuation around 10 billion dollars   because it's a very big medical need   which is ulcerative colitis and   obasimodivac   drug has the potential to revolutionize   uh the treatment for these patients who   for their lifelong typically   have severe inflammatory intestinal   disease. So that was Abbyax. So people   said, "Oh, maybe Philip and Truffle had   good luck." In fact, it was a lot of   work. So we decided to uh reproduce that   with Cavalics in the medical uh device

field although we have had a number of   other successful companies in MedTech   which we had to sell uh to Boston   Scientific Striker and so on and for   Carvalik we have decided uh to keep the   company independent and to try to   develop it as a commercially successful   world leader in cardiovascular disease.

>> Fantastic. Um and just before we leave   Adivax, when is that drug coming on the   on the market?   >> So as you can understand for a publicly   traded company on NASDAQ, uh we will not   make forecast. And since uh I'm not   anymore chairman of the board nor a   director nor a shelder, you should ask   this question to the brilliant to the   brilliant CEO Mark Magdel.

>> Okay. But uh So at some point relatively   soon I assume is the answer.   >> Okay. Well that's great because you know   uh these in general these GI problems   have been especially althitis have been   you intractable and really really tough   to deal with for the people who   suffering from them. So   >> yes   >> but but let's get really selfish here   talk about the people suffering from   heart conditions because that's that's   what I was interested.

Um what is the   let for those people who don't know and   I I probably know too much but it from   an amateur level what what is the the   main problem with with I mean there's   lots of different areas of cardiology in   lots of different heart conditions we   know that there's a lot of in the US   there's both a lot of activity in calf   labs in terms of you know people uh   cardiologists interventional   cardiologists using stances and all   kinds of other things to to to to work   on much of that invented at Stanford   obviously by by Fogerty and others um   And uh obviously there's a lot still a   lot of cardio thoracic surgery going on.   Um what are the actual areas that you're   uh attacking and then so tell me about   the problem and then talk to me a bit   about you know how the new world of AI   is impacting that.   >> Sure. So with carolics who are   addressing very big medical needs very   big markets of heart valve replacement   and uh treatment of stroke. So as you   know Matthew you have four valves in

your heart right now which open and   close let's say 50 times 120 times per   minute and of course these valves which   control the flow of blood in the heart   are critical to the good function of   your heart and unfortunately uh tens of   thousand I should say hundred of   thousand of patients suffer from valve   dysfunction often because of aging or of   infectious diseases and if these valves   either they are too narrow uh or they   leak will lead to heart failure and   slowly to death.

So uh in your case as I   understand it if you had had that uh 40   years ago uh you would have called me or   one of your friends saying who is the   greatest surgeon I should go to and the   surgeon would have said either sorry   Matthew I'm not going to try to replace   your valve because you have other   conditions or yeah let's try to do it   and come to my clinic or hospital.

Uh   within a few hours, I'll open your   chest. I'll stop your heart. I'll open   the heart and I'm going to sue a new   valve. And if you don't die during   surgery, uh you should not because I'm a   great surgeon. You'll stay a couple of   weeks or three weeks in the intensive   care and go back uh home.

Of course, you   are not going to be on the beach to show   your great scar, but you'll have a new   valve. Uh so few patients were   benefiting from that surgery. And then   25 years ago, uh a great uh French   invented transcotic   valve replacement saying, "Oh, I don't   need Bob or Jeff or Allah to do surgery.   I'm going to do the procedure myself   with a valve which I I can squeeze in a   small catheter.

Insert the catheter in   your femoral artery. The femoral artery   is at the top of your leg. Uh go up the   aorta while your heart is beating. I've   not opened your chest and I'm going to   deploy the valve in the location of the   old valve. So that was a revolution. Uh   and uh Edwards, Metronic, Abbot started   companies and projects.

Uh we started   CIA at the same time uh which Boston   Scientific then acquired uh two days   before the initial public offering. So   that was a first revolution.   Nevertheless, few patients still benefit   from that either uh because they have   other uh disease morbidities or because   there are not enough skill centers and   uh it's still a very manual difficult   procedure what is called tavi uh because   if the cardiologist   deploys the valve more than let's say 3   mm of where it should be sorry I've not   using 8 in millimeters.   >> I'm not sure I'm not sure we can do 3   millimeters in inches.   >> Well, let's say it's a little   >> very small distance

one of an inch. Let's say uh then uh you   may die, have a stroke or need a   permanent pacemaker. So only very   skilled cardiologist will do that and uh   few patients can benefit from that. So   since we knew very well the cardiology   field and the valve replacement field,   we said at truffle carolics, how can we   lead the next revolution? And the next   revolution is to use true AI and imaging   to uh lead the progression of a valve in   the out to the art and to deploy very   precisely the valve as well as the best   cardiologist would do manually. between   you and I since no one is listening of   course we can probably do better than

the best but at this stage and that's   what led to the FDA approval and support   of many uh strong cardiologists   worldwide we do as well as you know the   same thing in a Airbus or Boeing cockpit   frankly the pilot and co-pilot are   pretty useless right the plane could fly   automatically thanks to GPS satellite   guidance which is not possible for a   patient uh in a cat lab but which is   possible thanks to carvolics AIdriven   software and imaging uh and we're   launching the product in the US as we   speak.

>> So that's uh that's very good news given   I'm speaking to somebody who has been   told that I'm too young to have the tab   the tab or the tabby um which is the   only no one's going to be too young   these days. My kids certainly are not.   But uh apparently that you know the the   cardiologist saying, "Oh, you're too   young because we have to do we can only   do the tab twice and replace it and what   have you.

" So I'm trying to put it off   for as long as possible because they   still want to do the oldfashioned chest   cracking on me. But um say go down the   sort of next level. So for this current   procedure, yes, it's someone in a   catheter and they're they're putting the   valve in. They're replacing the old   valve kind of with the with the new the   new uh tissue mechanical valve.

Um   you're not changing the valve. I assume   you're just doing this in a in a in a   you're guiding the   >> well well the we have developed a robot   and an AI software which can be used   with the Edwards metronic abot systems.   So we are not introducing a new valve   we're allowing uh clinics and hospital   and cardiologist uh to do it with any   valve they will choose.

So if I'm   talking about the experience of the   cardiologist here um or not not not how   experienced they are but what they   actually are doing. So currently they're   introducing the ca they're shoving it up   the they order obviously they're trained   they are using imaging to do that as   >> that's right well they they're using   pre-intervention   imaging and they have imaging during the   procedure uh especially using what is   called fluoroscopy.

fluoroscopy. They   inject a contrast agent uh which shows   for a few seconds where the valve is,   where the existing aotic valve is. But   since they are doing that with a beating   art, the imaging agent disappears very   quickly. So for the last inch, you see   I'm using inch this time.   >> You can go back to millimeters if you   like.

>> That's right. They are pretty blind and   uh if they have done hundreds of   procedure in their life, if they do   hundreds per year, you know, they can   guesstimate   uh when they should deploy. But it's a   guesstimation.   Whereas with scavalics, they can know   precisely   uh where the valve is, where the   existing aotic valve is and when to   deploy.

So say a bit more about how you   actually do that, right? Because   presumably you have the AI your AI is   importing an image and develop doing   what now? So, so we developed at   Carvolics   complex algorithm   which was based which were based on   5,300   patients because many uh academic labs   or small companies say oh yeah we're   doing AI we have a bunch of 200 patients   and we've developed algorithm well   between you and I and others uh our   anatomy is different uh so if you want   to be effective for 99% plus of patients   you need to have algorithm which have   been developed and validated for   thousand of patients. Uh so uh that's   why the Tavi pilot software which we

call the brain knows at any time for any   patients where the catheter is where the   valve is where it should be deployed and   under the cardiologist supervision which   can stop or go like a Boeing pilot could   switch on or off the autopilot.   uh that's how it uh it works. So I think   the FDA was quite impressed uh when we   submitted the dosier for commercial   approval.

uh first because they could   see that the small uh French European   company from a country which could be   described more and more as an emerging   country uh had very skilled companies   and we had the strong support of   American KS uh and they decided to grant   approval for what is the world first   AIdriven   software for interventional cardiology.

So we hope to become the world   leader uh in TAVI with the new   technologies of AIdriven   uh robots and software.   >> So there's been a lot of AI used sort of   this far. I mean obviously everyone's   using AI for everything and you know who   who who knows right that you can't get   you can't get a buzz word away without   the buzzword and and and everyone using   lobster claw and whatever to to run   their lives but in terms of clinical   care there's been a lot of AI work done   obviously in imaging um and there's a   fair amount of of AI done in sort of uh   uh forecasting and and sort of stroke   detection and that kind of stuff there   are a number of companies like visi AI   and others AI doc who who are sort of in   this area, but are you as far as you're   aware, what is the state of play of sort   of AI being used for   >> surgery? Well, well, in fact, you have

lots of companies claiming they are   using AI but for planning before the   intervention.   uh and the big imaging companies GE,   Philips, Seamass have stayed away from   getting involved in interventional   procedures saying oh it's dangerous   liability blah blah blah and the big met   companies from the Abbot to Boston to   Metronic to Edwards do not have the R&D   skills uh to develop these tools whereas   at Carbolics   Well, when we decide to go after a   daring projects, we act, we do, we hire,   we put the cash 160 million euros in   Cavalics and you know, it doesn't always   succeed, but it looks like for Cavalics,

for Tavi pilot software and robots and   for trigger speed and mitro and what we   do in stroke so far was successful. So   the second thing with AI uh lots of   companies are saying oh let's develop an   AI product for diagnostics or whatever   and it will sell quickly. Well, people   forget that in health care patients do   not pay themselves for care, right? Even   in the US, uh you have payers uh in   Europe, you have social securities and   so on that will pay for products.

So, a   lot of AI products which are or will be   developed. I'm not talking competitors   of carbonics will not find their   successful market because no one will   want to pay a dime for the product. In   the case of tavi anotic valve which are   extremely expensive procedures right   tens of thousand of euros or dollars   there is room to add uh AI software and   robot uh and our robot is a very low   cost robot less than $10,000 so that the   cardiologist himself can sign up the   check to buy the robot so it's not a big   surgical robot which would cost a   million. So that's where we are with   carbolics uh where we maintain a very

strong R&D very strong intellectual   property and uh we can say at this stage   we have no competition for what we do.   Of course you know in a number of years   uh if we stop R&D if we stop our effort   there will be a Chinese or Indian   company who would not respect IP who   will say oh we are going to sell at   lower cost competitive products which is   why for carols we have hired great   management teams and we are maintaining   a high level of R&D on top of the   commercial effort.

So uh uh well I like your prediction. I   don't like how I understand your   prediction of the future. Let's let's   take a look. You actually have got a   video where you can show what the uh so   perhaps we can perhaps we can uh share   that then if you can share the screen.   So even though we did need to do such   clinical study to have FDA approval to   launch uh the product, we've decided to   do a few clinical studies in Australia   and in France uh to uh make sure that   with the support of K's of great   publication in leading journal leading   conference and here it's one of the   patient who got tavi in Australia Yeah.   So the room is pretty crowded because   all the cardiologist, surgeon, nurses   were quite excited to be part of this

clinical trial. Uh but uh in effect uh   what the tabby pilot software and robot   will allow is to decrease the number of   people in the cat lab to maybe one or   two cardiologists and just uh one nurse.   Uh so on the right you see the screen of   the uh Tavi pilot software which uh   shows at all time point where the valve   is and when it's time for the   cardiologist to push the green button   stay deploy deploy and uh we've done a   bunch of patients very successfully not   only for the brain for the software   where but uh recently for the robot   which will be approved we think by the   FD in 2026   and we have completed for the robot

eight out of 10 sequential patients in   this uh Australian center very   successfully. So there are two so just   to confirm there are two things going   on. One is the ability to see the AI the   algorithms basically demonstrate real   time what's happening at times for the   cardiologist to do.   >> Yeah.   >> And you've also built a robot which the   AI is directing uh and I guess the   directing but also controlled somewhat   by the cardiologist to sort of as to   take the valve through the uh through   the manage the catheter and then   actually release the uh release release   the valve at the appropriate time.   >> Absolutely. So, Matthew, make sure that   once you have held your you have had   your new valve, you come to us uh to be   in charge of investor relations because   that was a very good description.   >> All right. Well, I'm still waiting till   this great. So, so uh let's let's and   then let's so that's that's great. Um I   don't know the number of uh valve

replacements, but there's obviously the   aotic valve, but also then there's the   micro. So, how many are we talking about   in the US? I'll I'll give you a couple   of of numbers. Uh for just the outic   valve replacement, the current sales of   Tavi   uh is about 78 billion dollars between   the US and Europe.   >> That's the the sales of the the sales of   the valve.

You mean   >> the sales of the valves by Edwards   Metronic Abbert? uh the medical need for   just the aotic valve is three to five   times this figure and thanks to carolics   it should reach more than 20 billion   dollars by 2030 2032 now that's just one   of the four valve uh for the mital valve   which is the valve between the left   atrium and the left ventricle the   medical need is twice as big as the   aortic valve and then similarly the   third valve in need is the trick speed   valve in the right side of the heart.

So   we are developing the platform for these   uh different valves. So it means the   reachable market might be around 30   billion within four to uh 5 years and   more importantly you know tens of   thousand hundreds of thousand of   patients should benefit from that uh   going to a smaller uh center than the   typical very big experience center.

But   what was interesting from a Australian   and French clinical study is even the   very big seller who perform hundreds of   valve replacement per year say great   yeah we'll use it because your cavalist   product will decrease our stress we'll   do more patients per day in some   countries we'll just have one   cardiologist need in the cat lab and so   on so it's a little bit like experience   erenced uh airplane pilots, even the   most experienced, you know, if they want   to rest, relax a little bit, they switch   on the autopilot and they can talk to   the uh nice flight attendant behind.   >> Yeah. No, and it and it seems to me so   it's actually very interesting and and   slightly, you know, off topic from what   you're doing, but obviously this was   considered to be a disease of all

people. Um, I have a I have some kind of   uh genetic problem with my bicuspid   instead of tricuspid valve and and uh   I'm blaming I can blame my father for   this. Uh, which is very sad because of   my bad American lifestyle. I I've been   trying to get heart disease but   apparently this is the only heart   disease I have.

The rest of my heart is   apparently in very good shape and this   is genetic which is I think really   unfair and almost almost wasted my time   eating all those cheeseburgers and   drinking all that beer. Anyway, um but   but it's interesting when you look at   the Reddit forums, which I've been doing   lately for this topic, a lot of young   people have mitral valve and aotic valve   problems.

You know, people are in their   15 in teens and 20s and 30s and, you   know, have these things and they're   having mechanical valve replacements and   it this is an area where they've had   considerable you know there there are a   number of patients who've got to live   with this for a long long time. I know   the tab was introduced or tabby is   introduced for you know older patients   who couldn't undergo open heart surgery   initially but I assume that you know you   can grow the market age- wise as well as   the valves themselves get better and as   the the procedure gets better I assume   that will that'll be you know open   you're absolutely right that for   carolics which is publicly traded we   don't need to claim the increase of the   market uh to have an exciting project.   Now, if I share a little personal   experience, 10 days ago, my aunt and I'm   a favorite nephew, uh she's 91 years old   and she got a tavy in a French center

and she's doing uh beautifully. But   you're right, younger people more and   more uh will need these valves because   the goal is for them to recover a normal   life, family life, social life, working   life and we can help. And to me, you   know, I've started many many companies   doing lot of IPOs.

uh when I'm 85 90 95   years old if I've not had two strokes   I'll be the most proud of the products   we have developed uh to help patient   that's what matters uh on our short life   on earth   >> absolutely so you mentioned stroke so   let's go there um the other product you   have is is looking at strokes uh stroke   is a different thing right how valve   decays over time you have time Australia   strokes strokes are much more   something's happened, you've got to do   something quickly.

What's the state of   >> current? Absolutely. So brain stroke,   which is a clot which blocks a brain   artery, is the second cause of death,   second cause of disability. And it's a   medical emergency because if an artery   is blocked, the brain cells, the neurons   around the artery will quickly die. The   patient loses about 2 million neurons   per minute.

And unfortunately, it's like   the casino. uh when uh clot moves up   from the heart to the brain, well, it   may go to an artery which is not very   important or more often it will go to an   artery which controls speech, motion,   walking, uh eyesight and so on. And it's   a catastrophe. It's a catastrophe for   the patient.

It's a catastrophe for the   family of the patient. So the current   situation is uh can you remove the clot   in time which is within a couple of   hours of the brain stroke or not and for   the great majority of patient it's not   possible because there are few   neurovvascular centers with skilled   neuro clinicians who can handle the long   creditors uh which are 40 in long uh to   try to navigate in the small brain   arteries which are typically three four   millimeters in diameters in the brain   with a lot of steep turns three four   five steep turns before reaching uh the   clot. So it's called tctomy removing the

clot and most patient cannot will not   benefit from that and if you're in a   small city or countryside guess what   don't even try that's uh too late. So   we've decided   >> let me ask you let me ask you about   because obviously there's uh been you   know decades of clock busting drugs JC   you know started out using these and   that do the drugs not work in many cases   what's what's going in in in most cases   drugs which are called trombolytic uh   don't work uh well and uh the problem is   that uh you have major side effects like   bleeding possible. So the concentration   you would need at the location of the   clot most of the time will not be   sufficient to dissolve these uh clots.   I'm not saying they're useless. I'm   saying that it doesn't do the job. It's   like if you want to open your good

bottle of Bordo wine, uh you are going   to take a cork screw to open the bottle,   right? Uh not put something which will   slowly dissolve the cork. Well, it's the   same thing for uh brain stroke. So we   decided to start a very new uh   technology and in fact I filed the first   patent myself.

You know I loved for the   last 30 years to invent and to file uh   new patents and the concept of carbolics   is uh to use a micro robot which is only   2.5 mm. So that's one/10enth of an inch   in diameter uh which can be inserted   into an artery and move up to the brain   and when uh there is a bifurcation which   is should the robot go left or right   there is a magnet which is guided by AI   and imaging which position itself around   the skull.

So around non-invasive right   to attract the magnetized micro robot in   the correct artery. Uh so that's a   revolution. We're still in animal models   very successfully. We hope to start   clinical trials within a year. And the   goal is not to have the neuroraiologist   but the interventional cardiologist. And   there are many many many cat labs uh   which place tents uh replace valves and   so on which will be able to do this   complex procedure.

So it's about   democratizing   complex procedure and having   cardiologist do it so that most patients   wherever they get their stroke have a   chance to reaching a cat lab in time   before their brain cells have died. So   we are very proud of that because you   said it for valves it makes it easier   more patient and so on.

For brain   strokes uh if we are successful it's a   total revolution for patients.   >> Fantastic. So I think we got a video to   to show uh how the robot works. Is this   the same robot as the one that you're   talking about using?   >> No no no it's it's not it's not the same   robot. And uh here it's a micro robot   instead of a mini uh robot.

And it's   very important your question because uh   people think you can develop universal   robots who can do everything from   prostate cancer to cardiology and so on.   That's not the way it's working now day   and it will work and you need to tailor   each robot to uh the indication to the   medical need and also the cost of goods   has to be very low.

Uh the size the   weight of the robot has to be very small   so that it fits well in a cat lab. So   you see the tiny artery here uh the   micro robot which is black uh which   nears a clot here it's a pig model and   uh we had shown initially that you could   navigate the micro robot to the clot.   Then we've shown successfully that the   micro robot could attach to the clot   thanks also to the magnet around the   skull.

And we have also shown that uh   like with your fishing rod, a little   more complex than fishing rod, the   robot, the robot could pull out from the   brain artery the clot and uh restore the   blood flow. So we have very strong   patents around this technology. who are   moving forward full speed uh to reach   clinical trial with a finalized uh   product candidate.

I cannot yet tell you   it works in human that's the next big   step but we have a fantastic   uh engineering and clinical development   team at carolitics uh to do that. So for   for this one you saw so it's basically   destroying the clot and then moving it   around and uh in your animal models um   do do you   is is this we essentially talk about   time to restoring blood flow to the   brain.

>> Yeah.   >> What what what what comparing Yeah. I   mean I know I know this is asking you to   speculate and uh and there may be some   things you you can't claims you cannot   make but in comparing the complexity you   mentioned of a neurosurgeon you having   to drive the uh drive drive the catheter   up there compared to this what's your   expectation in terms of not only more   people being able to do it but how much   quicker and how much what kind of   outcomes we could expect.

So, so, uh,   when the patient is at the hospital and   the diagnosis of a stroke has been done,   which is pretty easy, uh, to do, start   to finish, the procedure will be 30 to   45 minutes, which is the same time as a   successful trobectomy procedure in a   neuro center, but with the big   difference that it will be done in a cat   lab by a cardiologist.

numerous   cardiologists around there. Uh so uh the   number of patients who will benefit from   that subject to successful clinical   trial and FDA approval uh will be you   know probably 20 30 40 times the number   of patients who can benefit from clot   removal. Which is why you know not only   the neuroraiologist but the cardiologist   seem very excited about what carolics is   doing and I'm not sure we have a video   but you can see uh in the animal model   cat lab uh the neuro radiologist is just   watching the screen and doing doing   nothing.   >> It's it's it's very similar to fighter   pilots right now. They used to be in the   plane climbing the seat of the P. Now   they're sitting in some place, you know,   watching the drone do it for them. But I

mean, we we can discuss we can discuss   the future of of professions and   medicine, you know, under AI at some   other time. But but uh clearly the game   is going to change.   >> You know, the the physician will do will   care for more patients and they'll do   new procedures so they are not at risk   of retiring. Right.

I don't I don't   see many they've been talking about   radiologists being replaced by AI for   many years. I don't see many   radiologists by the side of the road   with a tin cup, you know, begging for   change yet. So, we'll see.   >> Yes, absolutely. And by the way in some   countries maybe China uh it will not be   clinicians it will be technicians using   the robot you know like for imaging   radiology diagnostics uh many many   countries it's not the radiologist who   see the patient it's just a technician   I'm having had several echo cardiograms   myself recently I it's actually a fairly   technical job but nonetheless it's not a   it's not an MD don't have to go to   medical school and fellow ship and   residency and all that stuff. That's   fantastic. So, um, give me give that's   really interesting. So, these are two   areas. I assume you have some other   areas that you're thinking about for the   next   >> areas you could use this from form of AI   and robotics.

>> Well, not for now because these very big   medical needs, very big market are   totally sufficient   >> to make carbolics successful. I could   mention that we are developing a   biomimetic   mitro valve uh because we believe at   cavalics and truffle that uh engineers   who want to do better than the 3.5   billion uh years of R&D on earth which   led from bacteria to you and I uh should   not be played with trying to do better   than mother nature.

and that it's much better to mimic human   physiology than to think you could   improve it. So a mitral valve which can   has been already evaluated at the Mayo   Clinic by professor Saraf uh mimics your   and my mital valve in that it guides an   asymmetric blood flow in the left   ventricle which mean the left ventricle   has to work less with carolic heart   valve mitral valve than with   three leaflet valve developed by some   companies   which are derived from the outic valve.

So I don't know if this technical   explanation was clear enough   well I I yeah I I understand I know   there's also an attempt by a company   that magic cube in the UK started which   is to you know grow a polymer some kind   of cat scaffolding again to grow a   natural aotic valve. They told me about   this and I said well this going to be   ready for my replacement.

and they said,   "Well, we haven't done it. We have to do   it a sheep first, you know." So, these   things take a while to get to market.   So, on that on that note, um you're   you're what's the likely progression of   both? Well, obviously, one of them is   still not got into humans yet, which is   the the stroke one, but for the aotic   valve uh AI sort of for the carbolics   product in the for the tab, what what's   what's your likely progress? What are we   likely to see as it comes into the   market? Okay. So, it is on the market as   we speak in the US. It will be on the   market in Europe in 2026.   Carvalik has other big milestones in two   2026.   Carvalics will sell to a urology company   an implantable urinary sphincter which   is currently in pivotal trial. Cabalics   had the technology for that implantable

sphincter. Very big medical need because   the diapers for elderlys is bigger than   the diapers market for youngsters but   it's not cardiology. So we are going to   spin that out. Uh we have also an   agreement with Edwards Life Sciences   which is the world leader in structural   heart market and to which we granted an   option uh for a small cable products   which is an adjustable   uh analous uh which can be adjusted   sequentially uh when the uh mitro valve   leaks repeatedly.

So it will be a big influx of cash in   cavalics.   We'll have more results of various   clinical trials progress on the mitral   valve. So all of that going in the right   direction and I should insist that   carbolix is not developing prototypes.   Carolix is developing commercial   products which can be scaled up for the   US market, European market and the Asian   market.

And we'll publish also uh some   great results on the brain stroke side.   In fact, we just had a medical   scientific article accepted for   publication by a major journal. I cannot   cite it because while waiting for the   printing so lots of things to tell to   the investors to the NAS and so on. So   on the downside as you know the   environment from a stock market   perspective geopolitical   is not that great.

uh but since   Catholics were pathological optimistic   entrepreneurs   uh who are moving forward with   confidence although I've told my team   keep it for you that the war will end on   April 4th at 200 p.m. EST. So my team   say, "Oh, great, Philillip." Uh, that's   very reassuring. Thank you.   >> That's that's great.

Well, you can take   all the money you've raised and put it   on the couch prediction market to that,   which which apparently is what's going   on from before somewhere in the cabinet   room in in the in the White House, but   we yeah,   >> we can discuss that separately. So, uh,   in terms of in terms of, uh, this   becoming a standard, I mean, I assume   that most cardiologists when they see   this will say, "This is better, and I   want to use this for my, uh, valve   replacements.

" um what's your   expectation for how I mean sometimes it   takes forever for things to get in the   market happens very quickly but what's   your expectation   >> a very good question so we have a lot of   experience at carolik and uh at truffle   of launching uh novel innovative   products in the US and in Europe and the   one thing you don't want to do is to   hire a bunch of sales rep and say go for   it sell as many units as possible to as   many sellers and so on no you want to   have a very controlled launch first to a   selection of high-end centers uh which   will use correctly the products will   publish great articles at uh publish at   conferences and so on and then broaden   your launch. Uh and if you do that well   uh with not basic cells red but highly

technical people who can go into the cat   lab uh and talk to the cardiologist   while uh they take care of patients you   are likely to be very successful so   that's what we are doing at cavalics   first in the US then several European   countries and then with partners in Asia   >> all right so most important When is it   getting to UCSF?   Not that I would tell you where I'm   going to have mine done, but that's   >> you can if it's not on the list, you're   just going to bump that one up and   >> Okay. Okay. I'll I'll do that. Great   choice. UCSF or Stanford are good. Very   good cardiology standards. I I I hear   rumors that they have specialists in   both areas and they've had like I said I   I've been uh I getting you know after 35   years commenting on healthcare as a as   I'm now becoming I'll take a view from   from the other I'll take a look from the   other view and not not sure I'm keen to

do that but apparently it's   >> make sure make sure you send me a   picture of your   >> I can I can send you well yes I can send   like I said they're still arguing about   whether I can get one yet whether I'm   too young but that that's that's another   thing I'm hoping that this this kind of   thing will solve because as far as I'm   aware the the evidence for how long they   last is uh how long how long the the the   tabs last is is still you know you know   TVI you can expect 15 years and then you   have the so-al valve in valve   >> technology to put a new one so remind   them and they know it very well   >> I will I will I will have you consult   with the cardiovasc surgery. He's   calling me up and telling me I'm too   young for that, but   >> I can do it. And between open heart   surgery uh with uh   valve and going to the ER uh from time   to time and having your heart going

through heart failure and taking a   little risk that in 15 years you'll need   a new product. Uh there is no question   you should get your tab in.   >> I I I I agree with you. I'm also trying   hard to uh convince them that my uh my   my uh my numbers aren't getting any   worse every echo cardiogram.

We we we'll   see we'll see how I we'll see how I do   from my patient aspect. Anyway, thank   you Phillip. Thank you for indulging me   in my my my own sort of early patient   journey. Thank you for working on this   so that you know for for for not   necessarily for me but for many   thousands maybe millions of people that   you know that their experience will   improve.

Great to hear what you've been   doing over your over your career and   great to hear what Carvolics is doing.   Uh I've been speaking with Philipe Piti.   He is the uh founder of and CEO of   Truffle Capital um founder of Adacs as   we said and also now the founder of   Carvolics as you've been hearing about   today.

Phipe thank you very much for   your time. Thank you very much, Matthew,   and thank you to your listeners.