Title: Preeti Bhargava, Arintra
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=d-biMD_R430
Language: en
Duration: 12:53
Upload Date: Mar 21, 2026

Transcription:

Matthew on the THCB spotlight. I'm here   with pretty bug. She is the CTO of   Arentra which is a company in the uh a   using AI in the whole revenue cycle   management space. Pretty that sounds   that sounds roughly the right area but   what do you guys actually do?   >> Yes. Uh so we have a JI native   autonomous medical coding and billing   platform.

 It is natively integrated with   uh several EHRs and what our product is   basically acts as almost like an   invisible coder uh for the health   systems and physician groups. We take a   provider chart we uh code it to the   highest level of specificity and   optimality and we drop the flame   basically in the EHR. So at a very high   level that's what the product does.

  >> Um and give me a bit of a flavor of the   company. How long you've been doing this   and where are you in kind of the roll   out of of the product and   commercializing it?   >> Yes. uh we started 2020 with a different   product. At that time we were working on   uh medical intake and documentation. Uh   we worked with a few uh physician groups   and what we realized is medical coding   and billing is bigger a bigger pain   point for most of our uh customers.

 So   we actually pivoted to uh building   medical coding and billing in uh   somewhere around 2022. Um since 2022 we   have been working in different uh care   settings and specialties. We started   with ambulatory care. We serve about   like almost 15 specialties within the   ambulatory care setting. Uh we also uh   have a radiology uh medical coding   product and we're now working in patient   drafting and you know the impatient and   surgery uh coding space.

 So   >> and ballpark how many customers how many   physicians what volume of claims are we   talking about here?   >> Uh currently we are deployed with almost   20 customers. We have 25 contracted   customers. We are implementing them.   These customers range from large health   systems to physician groups. We are   working across the board like in   different states in different uh you   know with different physician group   sizes.

 Some of our customers include   Edinburgh Health which is the largest   health system in Illinois, Marcy Health   in Wisconsin and Illinois. We have some   physician groups we are working with   like Venova Health, uh Fed Primary Care   Associates, uh Riviera Medical. These   are some of the physician groups you   work and they like you.

 Why? I know the   answer to this question but what what's   the what's the outcome of what you're   doing for these guy for these groups.   >> Uh so coding has been a big challenge   for most of our customers and any any   healthcare uh you know like any revenue   cycle VP you speak to they'll be like I   don't have enough coders there are   staffing shortages going on you know   like and coding is the uh I would say   the the most important aspect of uh   revenue cycle management unless you code   the claim and send it to the payer the   health system does not get paid. That's   why it's very important that medical   coding is solved and why most of our   customers like us is because of the   sheer like the uh volume of claims that   we process for them the value prop that   we have which is the revenue upload we   provide them we help reduce the A by so   claims let's say charts processed uh you   know chart submitted overnight we put   all of almost like thousands and   thousands of claims within 8 hours 
10   hours and we drop the uh we drop them   within like so the value prop is what   most of our health systems like one is

  just making up for the coder uh coding   staffing shortage that they have the   revenue up that we provide them and of   course reducing their AI.   >> Can you give me some numbers on all   those free?   >> Yes. So for instance, Mercy Health, we   just published a case study with them.   Uh we have a we provide them a 5%   revenue upload which is huge for a lot   of health systems uh because of the   margins at which they operated.

 They   were able to free up almost eight FTs   and reallocate them to like let's say   different uh areas where they were   having shortages. uh we reduce the AIR   almost uh by like 60%.   >> Okay. So um let me let me go to two   things. One is the people they are   billing to probably are not very happy   about paying 5% more.

 What is the AI   response you're getting when we've just   been on the panel discussing this AI   response you're getting from the payers?   You know you send me a bill for 5% more.   You don't seem to be doing anything very   different. You're just   what what's the response? What's the   other side of the arms race doing   >> actually on the ground what we have seen   is that payers are making at uh what I   would say is like earlier like the the   health systems were leaving a lot of   money on the table right now they're   actually getting paid at the actual   level they were leaving things like so   we have found some very interesting   opportunities for health systems which   are services they did but they were just   not willing for that so from a payer   perspective I would say like now it's   actually at an optimal level because the   documentation supports the quoting   earlier uh when the health systems and   uh physician groups are willing they   were leading leaving things like   >> that that so
unds pure and lovely but I   can't believe a payer is happy about   paying 5% more for basically the same   thing

  >> um I would say earlier they were pay   getting paid less the the health system   >> I understand but I still don't believe   the payers are happy what are you saying   is the response technological and uh   response from the payers around this   >> uh I mean honestly look we haven't seen   denials in We've actually seen denials   go down with most of our customers   because we're actually coding it to the   right level of spec specificity and   optimality.

 Uh that's what we are seeing   on the ground.   >> All right. I would forecast a response   but let's let's let's hold that for the   moment. Um the other big issue when and   and u uh you know when you walk the   floor here when you look at what's going   on when you look at the amount of   funding there is for AI for AI in   general there are a ton of organizations   who either directly looking at the the   the medical records um and creating   creating claims or are doing a bunch of   stuff like ambient AI or whatever trying   to get into it and doing UI measurement   for a purchase for a uh a client of   yours, somebody at a health system who's   in charge of revenue cycle. They've both   seen this before. Companies like Oliver   have come and gone, right? They've also   seen all these people are saying, "Oh,   we're doing ambient eye. We're also this   or a company like Kimure which says   we're going to do everything."   >> When you go and sell our entry into   these systems, how do you explain what   
it what you're doing and how it's

  different and better than all the other   sort of AI RCM attempts? I mean science   if you I've written an article how to   how to buy and sell AI in healthcare   it's very difficult how do you how do   you deal with that   >> yes um and I I think that's a great   question Matt because uh what we're   seeing is um health like as you said   there are companies who are selling   ambient AI but say we want to do coding   but then there's community which is   saying like you know they want to do   everything right I think from a biased   perspective what we have seen is they   are looking for a product that solves   that problem right so if the problem is   coding accurate ely and within a certain   turnaround time what they call as like   you know the tag of coding they're kind   of looking for those opportunities they   they're looking for partners like   vendors who understand the pain points   who understand the technical depth of   what coding uh means how to code it   accurately and across different care   
settings and that's where we bring our   differentiator that we are not just in   the amulatory care space we are doing

  amaltric care radiology inatient we are   also extending into surgery so we are   solving coding as a whole. The other   thing that we have noticed is uh since   you build a coding vendor, one of the   things that we uh that our customers   also look for is hey sure you're coding   and you're finding these hidden   opportunities.

 How do I sort of even   educate my providers? So we have a huge   play in that market as well which is   here is a documentation improvement   opportunity and our software generates   those opportunities for the providers.   So not only the providers get to know   like how to document to the you know   like to the to the maximum uh like   optimality to the most specificity that   they can document uh like they're kind   of learning this and they're solving the   problem.

 The the third thing that we we   often talk about is like you know like   denials often comes into the picture.   What we are providing is a very   auditable and traceable and explainable   product which is the need of the hour in   AI. Nobody wants like a black box. They   want to know how did the AI come up with   this ENM level or this CT or this ICT.

  We provide that and that's what a lot of   our customers love because a lot of the   companies out there are not really   showing an audit trail of like how did   the AI come up with these codes or with   these uh you know like right down to the   like last element of the claim. How did   we come up with that? When we provide   that that is what a lot of our customers   love because they can use that one to   you know like answer any questions if   the payer payer let's the payers let's   say ask for medicals or they want like   how you know like how the claim was   coded they use that they use that for   denials appeal if in case the payer   downpours them they often bundle that   into like you know like a denial letter   and they can send it to so those are   some of the differentiators we are   seeing um in addition to like you know   And one of the biggest differentiate I   would say is the revenue uplift that we   provide a lot of our customers uh is   much much higher than a lot of the the   vendors l
ike we have our customers   saying that there's only a lot of   software vendors but what we provide is   very very

  >> how much uh in terms of selling how much   are your customers doing the selling to   other customers for you? A lot of our   customers um I mean we have a customer   in um I can't like can't take their name   but uh they are actually it's a rural   health clinic um you know like it's a   rural health based setup and according   to them this is a need of the hour for   rural health setups basically because   what they are seeing is that the the   rural health clinics and rural health   hospitals struggle a lot in just being   sustainable business right and uh to   this customer we provided almost like a   7% revenue upward uh even for clinics   which we thought were like very   profitable   according to the high standard species.   So he has been so excited about it that   he's actually talking to other folks in   his network, others in the area and sort   of like bringing them to us. Um we   recently spoke to an Arthur group in the   area and now you're on boarding that.   >> That's great. Uh it was much 
easier to   sell as somebody if your happy customers   are selling for you. That's fantastic.   All right. Um sounds like you're doing

  super well. Uh it sounds like you're you   know managing to figure out how to   establish that niche in what is a lot of   confusion around what AI is doing. Um   give me give me some background about   the company. How much money have you   raised? How big are you? Uh and where do   you think you end up going next?   >> Yes.

 Uh so this past this year we raised   our uh series A uh 21 million round. Uh   we are actually going to be raising   series B now. Uh this last year 2025 we   almost revenue. We went from processing   8x. Yeah, we are kind of at a almost   like a growing at a higher   >> and you when you get paid you take a   share of uplift. You pay a flat. How do   how do you get paid?   >> It's transaction based.

 So it's very   usage based which is a standard RCM   model that most of   >> us. So you so you're getting you're not   you're not going at risk for the the   uplift but you are providing   it's a per charge that we charge most of   our customers. Um we are currently uh   like I mentioned we are we have signed   about 20 25 customers.

  >> And how many employees and where are   they?   >> Uh we have about so so we are uh based   out of India and US. So we have about   like uh 15 or 20 in the US and about 11   or 50 union.   >> All right. Great stuff. And then uh push   us forward 3 4 years. What do you think   you look like? same thing for many more   health systems or many more are there   more products and and changes coming for   intro in terms of what you're offering   the same customers   >> um I would say both   >> so we are while we   >> I will tell your investors that though   to watch this point   >> yeah we are um we have a medical coding   product we are piloting a uh prior   product with one of our uh with one of   our uh health system design partners we   are also uh piloting a denials appeal   product so we are kind uh tried to   become this revenue assurance platform   which would make sure that like whatever   service that was provided like the   providers document it and then they get

  paid for it. So that is the mission of   the company that we want to ensure like   health systems are paid for whatever   services they are providing in and in   that uh and with that mission we're   trying to attack different uh you know   like sets of problems. Coding is one,   prior opt is one, denials prevention is   uh another.

 So the way I foresee is like   in the next 3 four years uh we would   actually be working with hundreds of   health systems and sort of being this   revenue assurance background that they   can use to get out and   >> all right we'll see how it pretty bug   off. She is the CTO and co-founder of   Artra. Britney, thanks for your time.   >> Thank you so much.



