Title: Primary care, Concierge Care & AI - How to fix health care
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Avpyl2b4P50
Language: en
Duration: 16:39
Upload Date: Feb 2, 2026

Transcription:

I'll spoke I speak a lot about AI. I   will get to the end which I think is   important but it's how is AI going to be   used in primary care. Hopefully the   slideshow is going to operate. Come on   little computer. There we go. Um this is   me if you want to find me. Yes, stands   right. I founded health 2.

0 a long time   ago. I'm wearing the health 2.0 t-shirt   from Japan 2017. That was towards the   end of health 2.0 rather than the   beginning. Um but I am trying to sort of   straddle this interesting part right now   and I will take my 15 minutes and I'll   try to not save my time too much. um to   both sort of think about how do I think   we fix the whole health care system and   how is technology changing primary care   and these two things in my view are very   interrelated so let's go all right this   is a barber shop the high limit barber   salon in Vallejo California where I was   on Monday why was I in a black barber   shop in Vallejo California which is one   of the this is not PaloAlto this is not   marine county this is one of the poor   areas of the Bay Area because the   fellows in the middle are from the roots   community clinic and they are handing   out blood pressure devices to the fellas   on the left who are barbers. Why are   they doing this? Because they want those   barbers to start working as community   health workers to start taking blood   pressure of people in uh who come to   their barber shops, predominantly black,

  latino clientele who go to the barber   shop a lot and never go to the doctor.   What's going on here? Well, it turns out   that when these guys measured their own   blood pressure, most of them were   massively out of range. Why is this?   Nobody in this country goes to primary   care and gets this stuff checked.

 um   about half Americans don't have a   primary care doctor. So what's wrong   with primary care? Let's just get back   there. Well, here's the basic issue,   right? If you go to medical school and   you spend your four years doing that and   then your four years doing that, working   super hard, being top of your class,   then you spend uh three to five years in   residency, then you go go do a   fellowship, you come out and become a   primary care doctor, you get about half   the amount of money that the smart kids   who do orthopedics, cardiology, urology   do. So why the hell would you do that?   So not surprisingly a lot of doctors in   current America would rather be on the   top of this list than the bottom of this   list.   What has happened as a consequence of   that? Well, primary care is has has sort   of deas aspirated if that's a word. Um   and now there are a number of different   ways that people are getting primary   care. The predominantly employers   predominant employees of primary care   are big hospitals. These are the big   hospital systems. I won't go into my   rant. You can see it online about how   much money these big hospital systems   have got, how much they've got in their

  reserves, how much they sue their uh how   much they are frequently busted suing   their very poor patients. But   nonetheless, one thing they've been   doing is for a long time is buying   doctors, right? They've been buying uh   uh clinician practices, but they lose   money on all the CLINICAL PRACTICES THEY   BUY.

 Why is that? Bob Koker from Venrock   wrote a piece about this back in 2011.   Maybe $150,000, $100,000 a year. That's   because this is a chart from this fellow   Andrew Sang who should definitely follow   on LinkedIn. Andrew's put this chart   where he basically looked at the profit   level, the margin and the volume of and   and how much uh different DRGs get for   hospitals.

 And if you look at the blue   one from the top right, this is   orthopedic surgery. They make a lot of   money. If you get a knee replacement or   or an ACL repair, something that Stan   and I know something about from our   snowboarding days, they're very   profitable. cardiology which is the uh   the the the one also super profitable.   You see in the top right corner you're   very very profitable as a hospital.

 So   the job of primary care doctors is to   get the people who need this stuff into   their affiliated hospital. If they go   somewhere else it's called leakage and   that's a bad thing for hospitals. So   that's what we turn most primary care   doctors into doing. But they're not all   the primary care doctors.

 You want to   try and find a primary care doctor? You   probably can't find one. But this is the   urgent care in my neighborhood in Marin   County just north of San Francisco. And   you can see a bunch of different urgent   care. Some of it owned by big health   systems, some of them owned by   ventureback companies.

 The carbon health   is owned by was venturebacked probably   PEO now. And if you look at it, here's a   chart showing you about nearly 40% of   hospital of of urgent care is owned by   hospitals feeding into those hospital   systems and a big chunk 17% probably   more like 20% now owned by private   equity.

 So these are feeder systems   designed to make money off off uh   services not to look after the whole   care of the patient. think go back to   those patients you know who who are   visiting the barber shops. The third   place where primary care is showing up a   lot now. And this is just one commercial   I picked from a company you all know.

  You may have bought the stock. If you   bought at the right time, you did well.   If you didn't, if you didn't, you're   probably doing badly. But this is him, a   teller health company, which has now   made a lot of money selling uh boner   pills, hair pills, and now fat pills. Or   is that what Trump calls it? The fat   pill. I think he calls the GLP ones.

  There's a ton of director primary care   to pharmacy going on. A lot of it's cash   paid. Some of it's starting to be   covered by insurance. And when Stan   earlier this morning when he was trying   to call me on stage while I was still in   the bathroom, didn't have any clothes   on, so that's why I didn't come on   stair.

 Stan uh mentioned this, he was   talking about going direct, you know,   from the the the farmer companies like   Lily and Fiser going direct to consumer.   That's also a slice of primary care, but   again, that's not all of it, right?   So   what we haven't done is successfully   figured out how to get primary care to   look after the mass of chronically ill   people on a regular basis.

 We're doing   all these other things. We're trying to   put them in the hospital. We're trying   to sell them drugs. We're trying to sort   of get them urgent care. We're not   thinking about the holistic whole   person. We've done a really shitty job   in America of doing that. But but have   we you know historically always done a   shitty job? Well, kind of. Yeah.

 But we   have tried stuff. So you may or may not   know who these people are. Guy on the   left is called Sydney Garfield. He's   standing outside the contractor's   general hospital outside the Grand   Kool-Aid Dam in 1937 which was the first   hospital in America where you could   prepay as an employee of the dam and   then later at the big shipyards in   Oakland during the war you could prepay   to get all your care taken care of.

 Guy   on the right is a guy called Henry big   industrious called Henry Kaiser. After   the war they got everyone in their   shipyards to use these uh uh to use this   system and then they open it to the   public. Kaiser Permanente Permanente   Foundation Hospital Oakland opens about   July 1945.

 You know this organization   now as Kaiser Permanente massive prepaid   healthcare system which is currently   buying all the other prepaid systems   that bought Gisinger and others. The   theory behind the Kaiser Permanente   system is I get prepaid so it's not   fever service medicine. instead I'm   getting I'm getting a lump sum to look   after the whole population and I figure   out how to spend that money and   hopefully I don't spend more than that   because then I run out of money.

 Um I'm   not saying they're in any way perfect   but they have a different philosophy for   primary care than um than the rest of   the system which is still a fee for   service system which still does better   by doing more.   Okay, this isn't the first time again   people have said, "Well, that's a good   idea. Let's try to do it.

" Back in the   90s when Stan was a young uh associate   assistant professor and I was just   cutting my teeth at uh at Institute for   the Future in Harris, there was an   organization called Mullikin which was   trying to do a sort of become a medical   group that took prepaid capitation. They   merged with a called Med Partners.

 Whole   bunch of activity around this and all   these things happened and then they blew   up. The problem was these organizations   these uh these organizations could not   effectively manage capitation. They   weren't as good as they thought they   were and their relationship with health   plans was too advers adversarial.

 So   they received capitation like a lump sum   for the payment coverage of their of   their people but they couldn't manage   it. Kaiser has the health plan and the   medical group and the hospitals and they   can manage it internally. It didn't work   in the in in this strategy. Having said   that, if you look at the bottom of this,   there was the advisory board which is a   very now owned by Optimum and United but   then a very very powerful independent   consulting group.

 Basically went around   the country telling all doctors and   hospitals that this was the future and   that they should create a rich primary   care base which would do population   health. They were wrong. Didn't happen.   But a lot of hospitals got influenced   this way. A lot of them actually bought   physicians groups and sold them in the   90s before they started buying them in   the 2000s and 2010s to just drive   referrals.

 As I showed earlier, the   problem was, and I don't know if you've   uh uh uh this is a chart that I did from   way back when, um the problem was that   underlying all of this managed care that   we talked about in the '90s, was just   fever service. This chart just tells you   that almost all of the managed care   activity, which is the 36% in 1997 when   I surveyed physicians, uh was fever   service. And it really hasn't changed.

 I   did a piece on human managed care uh in   Medicare Advantage, the numbers are very   similar right now. We still have a very   small slice that is real cavitation,   real riskbearing uh by primary care   systems and it doesn't it doesn't work   doesn't mean   click down that we haven't tried it   right all these organizations Oak Street   Cano care KMAX and even Babylon which   bought a bunch of medical groups have   tried to do this again have tried to do   uh managed care and managed care and and   capitation and risk bearing all of them   are blown up we don't have the skills   involved at the clinician level to do   this on and to spread it. So, it's not   happening. It's the system is rejecting   it.   Here's a great example. Uh great podcast   you should do with this guy, Scott   Conard. Uh Scott ran a medical group in   Dallas in the 2000s and when the acco   legislation came up, he went to they   were very successfully starting to   manage care and reduce costs for just   for just the for basics of primary care

  integrated group. He went to a local   health system. He said, "Let's get   together and uh we can become big acco.   we can like reduce costs and people out   of the ACO program. And basically all of   his people after they did the merger,   all of his people got fired. And then he   got fired.

 And he talked to the guy in   strategy and said, "What what happened?   Why did this thing not work?" And the   guy in strategy health system said, "You   do realize your group was costing us   over $100 million a year in in emissions   because you were too good. You were   stopping people getting in the   hospital." So it's a great story. I   would definitely go listen to what   Scott's podcast on sorry Scott's edition   of the Renais Health Value podcast with   Stacy Richtor. Okay.

 So what is the   answer if cavitation doesn't work and if   primary care has been blown up and we're   not treating those people well in the   barber you who end up in the barber   shop. What is the answer? Maybe this is   the answer. This is uh some of you know   Jordan Schlane his group private   medical. It's great.

 It's concierge   medical practice. The problem is it's   like 40 to 80 grand a time. So if you're   not a sil Silicon Valley billionaire or   multi-millionaire which sadly I'm not   despite my time hanging around here   probably not scalable. There are people   trying to do this at a bigger level   though. This is Solace Health.

 They're   charging somewhere between $4 and $7,000   depending on your age uh for basically   total concierge primary care. Again,   that's just for the primary care part.   Now, I like this model, but it's clearly   not scalable these prices. There is   something very interesting. There's   another company, MDBIP, which does this   primary care stuff.

 Um they have uh   panels of around about 600 as opposed to   the 2,000 to 2 3,000 EC traditional   primary care practice. And that is   giving you part of the clue. How do we   get to that level? So how do we do it?   Let's do the math. We've got 900,000   physicians roughly in the country.   Typical primary care panel about 2 and a   half thousand.

 We've got 340 million   Americans. And these concierge PCP   panels has 600 patients. So somehow   we've got to figure out where do we get   570 if you do the math 63 we mean   570,000 primary care doctors if we want   to do concage care for all which I think   does work and we don't have enough we do   a lot of NPs   okay right now we're spending about   $15,000 per head um and we're only   spending 700 to 1250 around a thousand   of that you know less than 10% on   primary care what I think we should do,   and this is my policy part, is bump that   to about two $25 thousand. So, give   everybody in America a voucher, but   you've got to spend that voucher at a   concierge clinic. You have to buy   primary care at a concierge clinic. And   I explain why I think that that that'll   work, right? What does that do? That   gives the primary care doctor for their   600 patients per doc, and it won't just   be one doc, maybe it'll be a barberhop

  based clinic. You know, who who the hell   the hell knows? All kinds of innovation   around 1.2 million. So they can pay   themselves like an orthopedic surgeon,   half million bucks a year, and they have   around $700,000   left to buy programs to help manage   those patients, especially the   chronically ill ones who require a lot   of care and a lot of service.

  Okay,   so what happens next? Uh this is Pet   Joy. He's the guy who runs Open Health,   which is trying to build the uh the the   barberhop clinic for for hypertension.   Pet Peter is, you know, fascinating guy   and he's talking about how can we get   access, how can we get all the people   who are like completely underserved, not   in the system, maybe going to a   community health center, maybe using the   emergency room as their primary care   doc.

 How do we get them into the system?   We also need a big effort to figure out   how to do that to to improve their care.   But if we do that, we know how to fix   stuff. This is Bob Matthews. He is uh at   a company called Primary Physicians, a   medical group you've never heard of in a   town you've never heard of called   Dayton, Ohio.   Instead of the California average of   people under being under control of   hypertension which is about 40 to 45% or   the Kaiser average Kaiser does pretty   well around 70% of people are in control   for hypertension if they have   hypertension. Their numbers are below   130 over over 90. They're at 95%   including in their uh inner city inner   city clinics serving mostly   African-American populations. So they we   know how to do it right. This is the   South uh South Central Foundation uh NUA   clinic in Anchorage, Alaska. They've   figured out a way to do more primary   care communitydriven and it has amazing   results. You can go read up on this.   It's a great piece in one of my articles

  linked really fascinating clinic. We can   do this. We know how to improve primary   care, improve chronic illness and we   will if you look at this reduce hospital   spending. Here's a study from Milman   telling you that hospitals spending   inatient care for for these types for   these types of uh uh clinics goes down   and ER cost goes down dramatically.

 I   think we can spend save a lot of money   in hospital care if we do this properly.   All right. So I said tech innovation. I   won't bore you with this. You've all   talked about LLMs enough. You know   there's a ton of healthcare applications   out there. And then of course the big   announcement was both chat GPT and   Claude and Frovic are now including in   their uh you know including in their in   their packages the ability to get your   data in there from wherever your record   is in the Epic system or Medic or   wherever it's supposed to be. Um I've   been doing a lot of this with my own   health journey at the moment just   putting my own records in there but now   you can do it do it directly. This is   clearly a big deal both for consumers   and it's and obviously we've heard a lot   about how uh doctors are using it and   here's a example of Peter Lee just doing   a curbside consult using chat GPT   actually a couple of years ago. [gasps]   So what did I learn at JPM in the last   couple of minutes? Well I did this panel   with these three brilliant female   medical directors. Amy Perrick from   included health, Kathleen Jordan from   MIDI health and palaby day from general

  medicine. So these are a combination of   sort of MIDI is more like a specialist   organization for for women in sort of   midlife women around menopause and other   issues. Uh included is more of a sort of   first stop navigation navigation portal   but it has a medical group and general   is a new medical group trying to sort of   allow people to to to buy into specialy   care um quick more quickly more easily.

  What do these three have in common? What   do I learn from the panel I infinite?   Well, the first thing is that if you do   tellah health first, it's better than   doing regular appointments because you   can do a bunch of stuff. You can have AI   create the deliver the patient   information to the doctor.

 The AI can   also deliver information to the patient.   So, as a pun, all right, uh in advance.   Second thing is you can integrate   specialally care into that visit   straight away. And the third is we have   more and more testing coming microbiome   genomics but also just blood testing   from function superpower and that can be   interpreted by a confront you can manage   patients and finally there's this   company called dotronic which is   delivering basic care purely by AI now   licensed in Utah so that's an   interesting way to say how are we going   to get AI into you know basic if we do   this primary care that I'm talking about   how can we expand it using AI all right   I will shut up I've written this article   called concagege care for all you will   find it on the healthcare blog   Uh, so I'm both now moving from just   being an observer to being a   professional ranter. And Stan, I will   engage you in my uh in my attempt to get   the government to give us all a lot more   money for primary care and to stop   spending unnecessary money all these big   expensive hospitals and and health   insurance companies.


