Title: Ratnakar Lavu, Elevance
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TjFAw810Z5M
Language: en
Duration: 9:12
Upload Date: Mar 13, 2026

Transcription:

[music]   CHCB quick bite. I'm here with Ratnikar   Labu. He is the head of all things   digital. I don't know who that's ev EVPC   chief innovation officer information   officer. as a at elevance which uh may   rhyme with elephant and may and lots of   people don't still don't remember what   it is but that is the former anthem   wellpoint massive forprofit uh blues   plan with 23 24 some number of blues   plans under its wing   >> fantastic all right um now first things   first you came from Nike and   Bloomingdales and Macy a bunch of places   doing retail right which is true over   the years   >> why would you come to an industry as   screwed up as healthcare has no idea how   to deal with consumers. Tell me tell me   about your very briefly your personal   journey to come into healthcare.   >> Well um so I've done a lot of uh   consumer um kind of experiences   personalization at scale um you know

  being in consumer industry and   healthcare you know is pretty complex   you know how we experience healthcare   >> I believe Donald Trump said it was who   knew it was so complex. Yeah, it it is   very complex and and I think my   experience with how to simplify   experiences for consumers uh I thought   would be a great value ad in the   industry and that's what we we're really   focused on right now which is how do we   simplify and personalize member   experiences.

 How do we simplify the   interoperability with providers so that   they can focus more on clinical outcomes   versus administrative and then how do we   actually provide the tools for our   associates so that they can actually   serve members and providers effectively.   All right. There is a lot of uh I mean   good reason [clears throat] to come lots   and lots of challenges right across the   board.

 Health plan has to you know   there's health plan they have policy   challenges political challenges as as we   know government changes in government   programs and you know the ACN god knows   what going on and then you've got to   deal with this customer service issue   which touches so many different parts of   the healthare system and the consumers.

  Um I myself have ranted about a   similarly colored plan with I'm a member   of a California and some of their uh   technology issues but you can summarize   from the inside of how many different   things are going on how many old legacy   systems there are there's claims there's   provider selection there's member   management there's god knows what else   and then there's a bunch of internal   stuff that the consumer never sees.

  >> So how do you prioritize what you're   doing when what what is what is the most   important elements in that whole stack   from a digital perspective? Yeah, I I I   think we make a lot of the decisions in   terms of what to prioritize and how to   prioritize keeping the member at the   center or the patient at the center uh   and making decisions around that.

 And   I'll give you a couple of examples. We   wanted to actually make the entire   member experience simple in terms of   understanding their benefits,   understanding what they might pay for a   service, understanding how they can   connect to a provider who can provide   the highquality care at an affordable   price, right? And so we have something   called a digital virtual assistant that   we launched on our application, the   Sydney app. And that does exactly that.

  A member can chat like a chatbot. They   can say, "Oh, I have I have a knee   surgery. Is does do my benefits actually   cover that? And then how much I will I   pay for that service?" And so we made   that entire um experience easier. And   then we can also we use 1,300 data point   to actually identify the right provider   that can provide the right quality of   service for them uh for for the knee   surgery.

 So putting the patient at the   center, how do you actually create the   right personalized experiences for them?   And then also we're really focused on   how to simplify the interoperability   with providers. Um that includes kind of   um um utilization management, prior off   claims adjudication. So we're putting a   lot of because technology today can   actually enable that simplification to   happen at scale with AI and so we're   putting a lot of um AI embedded into   kind of our prior ro primarily for   approvals.

 So we don't do it for   denials. We actually do it for   approvals. We want to speed up the   approvals overall so that the uh the   provider can focus on patient care   versus administrative components of   care.   >> All right. Um look we we won't dive into   that too much but lots of controversy   around that and you and I are about to   be on a panel where they may maybe get a   bit more controversial may get into that   a bit more.

  >> Um   >> obvious question here you look at the   hall at five or   a hip or wherever you know 2,000   companies all doing AI something. Um how   do you how many of [clears throat] those   are you working with? How do you select   them? I I think Sydney comes out of the   company originate out of Israel. Am I   right? No, you know, but we we built it   internally.

  >> Oh, yeah. So, I'm wrong about that. I'm   trying to think of the name of the   company you were working with a while   ago, but I'll I'll give you you know it.   But when you're working with outside   vendors, how do you figure that out?   What's the process?   >> Well, I I think again uh our framework   is uh very clear, right? So, does it   actually solve the member problem and   does it simplify the member experience?   Does it actually solve the   interoperability for the provider and   then does it actually enable our   associates to have the right tools to be   able to service our members and   providers right so that's the way we   actually think about that now there's so   many solutions right now out there uh   that say they do uh pieces of it but I   think there a couple of things that we   pay attention to one is can they scale   to the level that that we are at we have   40 million members and we need to scale   into that the second is if even if you   build bring in a lot of solutions. Is it   
a siloed solution or is it more of an   end to end experiential solution and   that's what we really focus on and then

  the third piece of it is we're very   clear about responsible AI and   protecting our data and the privacy of   it. So any solution has to work within   that framework otherwise we we don't   actually entertain that. and ballpark   how much of this is stuff you built   internally and how much is it working   with uh outside vendors you have and how   many different digital solutions you   have a sense of how many you're managing   >> yeah so so a lot of the heavy lifting   the big scale things we actually do   internally so it's about 70% of most of   it what we do internally and we   integrate 30% through other solutions um   but they need to be at scale though that   that's a big thing that we we actually   pay a lot of attention many companies   start off small but they're not able to   scale and we pay a lot of attention to   can they actually scale to the level   that we need to.   >> If you are an elevance or a United or a   Kaiser or one of these guys a big player   like that has to [clears throat] s
cale.   Um if you go back to even like to the   Epic implementation which was kind of   when you were doing sensible stuff in

  retail before you came to craziness in   healthcare you could tell that obviously   a lot of that was a very deep   partnership where they helped Epic to   scale and you can tell this is obviously   going on with other things. um how much   work are you doing within elements to   sort of take some of those vendors and   make sure that they become you know able   to scale or how much do they have to be   able to run on their own?   >> Yeah, I I I think that partnership is   actually uh very symbiotic um meaning   they bring in some innovative ideas and   new thinking um uh potentially that we   haven't thought through but they don't   know actually how to scale and we kind   of educate them on how to think about   scale and so we evolve their products.   So when a startup actually comes, we   evolve their products both from a   capability kind of standpoint and a   scaling standpoint. Um because they have   never seen this level of scale and so   that's that's actually a partnership   that needs to work real
ly well.   >> All right, last question. Uh AI, open   AIPD   announcements every day, you know,

  lobster claw or whatever the hell it's   called, all this stuff. What are you as   a as a tech guy, what are you most   excited about for healthcare? I think um   all of them are innovating at a very   fast pace right now. Uh I really like   kind of um some of the solutions that   they're bringing in terms of how you can   speed up engineering and capability   building for a large enterprise like   ours.

 Even taking like new capabilities   that we want to build or taking legacy   systems and migrating them and   modernizing them. So no longer is the   kind of the timelines years, it's   actually going to get compressed. And   that's what I'm really excited about   because now you can actually change   systems and experiences much faster to   serve our members.

  >> So you're more excited about the   infrastructure than the kind of   applications layer as it were. Although   although it's hard to tell the   difference,   >> you can't you can't tell the difference.   [laughter] But but but I think   everything is blending and then I think   the intelligence is what actually is   enabling us to build some really kind of   simplified experiences at scale.

  >> Fantastic. Well, I'm certainly looking   forward to seeing the health fan   experience going on. There's another   colored health plans I mentioned in   California. I'd like at least to have a   chatbot like Sydney. So we'll discuss   that another time but I mean figured Ran   Car Lavo he is the chief digital   information officer at Elements.

 Ran,   thanks for your time.   >> Thank you. Thank you so much.



