Title: Rosemarie Day for Healthcare Leaders for Democracy
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=26v5trfBMzQ
Language: en
Duration: 15:48
Upload Date: Aug 24, 2025

Transcription:

[Music] Matthew Hall with the Healthcare Blog here and I'm here with my friend Rosemary Day who those of you who are THCB gang uh viewers and listeners will know well from my many appearances there. Also the author of a book called Marching Towards Coverage. Did I get that number name right? Yeah. From five years ago, four years ago, three years ago 2020 that a year right? talking about uh you know how you mobilize grassroots people in that case to talk about healthcare Cambridge and uh now we have uh perhaps other reasons

to mobilize the grassroots and Rosemary you going to tell us about something that's coming up on September the 4th that you've wrote me into being a co-host supporter of um so what is happening on September the 4th and what's it all about? Thank you Matthew. Um yes I have roped you in. Um, I joined a group um trying to put my money where my mouth is or my uh work effort um when I on my volunteer side toward what I wrote the book about which is that we truly do have to revitalize our democracy. I think we're

seeing that now more than ever. Um I wrote the book about u trying to get to universal healthcare. Um and we were marching slowly but surely in that direction. We are um about to face a major retrenchment in that regard. And to try to correct for that um we have to go to the grassroots um and really get folks who have been uh feeling completely disaffected and not part of the system to decide that it is worth their while to show up and vote. Um and so that's why I joined healthcare leaders for democracy that exclusively

funds um the movement voter project political action committee. All right. So uh we'll talk about what the movement voter um pack is in a second but what is the what's the event that's coming up? Right. So um we are thrilled um that Dr. Atul Gowandi agreed to be our keynote speaker at our key event for this fall. So, that is on uh Thursday, September 4th um at 9 uh p.m. 8:00 p.m. Eastern, 5:00 p.m. uh Western time. And he will be speaking um about the need for us to um to really engage in grassroots

democracy building. Um he most recently served um as a top administrator at USAID which as um many folks know has been essentially dismantled by the Trump administration and um he has lots of thoughts about why that happened and what we can be doing um to protect health both domestically and internationally. So a couple other uh worthy um and well-known healthcare leaders. Don Bowick used to be the CMS administrator and obviously ran the uh uh Institute of Health healthcare leadership improvement

IHI and John Mcdana from uh the Harvard School of Public Health um who's one of the leaders of of healthcare for all is going to be on this as well. um what what I mean obviously you know at is like one of the great writers and speakers of our time in health and healthcare um what's the sort of and obvious and equally obviously we've now had the big beautiful ugly bill whatever you want to call it pass and clearly whatever the lies being spouted out from Vance and Trump and everybody else you

know Medicaid is going to take a serious hit out of this which is the care for the the the uh the poorest and most vulnerable in the country um How do you make the connection between the sort of policy statements and the sort of motor the the movement voter pack and the sort of grassroots organizing? Well, I mean a lot of us sit here and we sit back and look at this stuff and go, "God damn, there's not a lot we can do until you know until Trump's out, but obviously we have a midterm coming up." And what do

we need to get done? What does what a movement pack what are those folks doing out in the field? Well, I mean, it's important that we don't give up and we know that that's part of the strategy um the whole flood the zone and stuff to just try to overwhelm us and make us think um that this is like impossible and it's just not. The thing is I think um this is an editorial comment that our society's gotten addicted to quick fixes. Um and th this movement voter pack is really about doing the long-term grassroots

democracy building that is it's not there's not one silver bullet. It is um the the the premise is that you go personto person building trusted relationships funding the organizations in key states with people who are live and work in those states. Not some of us who like to swoop in during a presidential election and knock on some doors and say, "Hey, vote for soand so." Um but to really take the long view work towards um building uh belief in voting in local elections all the way up to the

presidential. But the focus now of course will be on the midterm election, midterm congressional. Um but again taking that longer view and funding organizations that do grassroots community building and organizing. And does movement voter pack do they um do they have their own staff and people? Are they like a a fund that is channeling money to other local organizations? And I've often wondered about you hear a ton about this in the sort of six months before presidential election. Can we put field workers into

Philadelphia or you know wherever the swing states are? But you don't really hear a lot about longterm, you know, grassroots organizations trying to build voter momentum. Um maybe we heard about it more back in the 90s with Rock the Vote and stuff. Uh do you know how it's actually working and and uh and how how they're doing what they're doing and then we can talk about how you know how to get this stuff to work later. Right. So, um, so they they do have staff, but what they're predominantly

doing is, um, vetting the organizations that are in on the ground in the states and sending the money to them. Um, so so they're, um, like I say, doing that vetting, um, and they're doing some of the strategizing about what which states are the ones uh, to to put the investment in. I mean, if they had all the money in the world, they'd they'd uh, cover, you know, a a lot more states. And so we're trying to make it possible for them um to to go broader and deeper. Um they have had success u

most recently in Wisconsin um where I think people may recall Elon Musk was trying to buy that election and um oh yeah that was the Supreme Court um the state supreme court was voted right and that was a very crucial uh and I think they'll speak to that at the event as to um how you know who they funded and how that worked. Um, and so we we know it can work, but you you have to kind of again be willing to invest in folks who aren't necessar they're not on the political campaign list. I've worked

on a lot of campaigns and we're, you know, you call you knock on doors, but that's usually because somebody's voted at least once and so then you go and try and find them again. These are trying, this is trying to get to folks who've never voted. Yeah, I was actually I had a uh I was at AHIP talking about hanging out with the uh people in healthcare who are going to be impacted one way or another by some of this big beautiful bill. Perhaps the first healthcare bill for a long time

where uh you know the the big healthcare incumbents were kind of excluded and it might be interesting to see how they do. But very interesting. Scott Jennings, who was the token Trumper or maybe the genuine Trumper but a token uh you know the one on CNN was there and he was supposed to be there with Vance Jones. Um and Vance Jones Van Jones. Yeah. Yeah. Vance on my mind. Right. Van Jones who bizarrely I actually knew a bit because I volunteered on Ariana Huffington's campaign for governor in California in

2003 if you really want to go back to my obscurity. And he ran that in Northern California. what I mean the last few times there. But anyway, uh um and Van couldn't make it. Uh Van was stuck in somewhere and and Scott had been in in uh in Israel and he basically gave a you know I think much much less much more so than he does when he's on TV. He gave a very levelheaded sort of you know one-sided discussion tried to talk about what he thought the Democrats should or could do or whatever. But what

he said to me which was actually I thought was was what he said which I thought was fascinating was he said look you know the Trump coalition it held together and it's barely a majority and if you looked at the swing states right um five of the swing state swing states voted for Trump didn't it didn't even translate down to the Senate race in all of those races right right it's only Pennsylvania where the guy had a ton of money of his own the ex Bridgewater Okay. Um my name is uh you know only

in one of them did even you know the that razor thin Trump coalition hold to to to be to be the and but so what has happened is that I wouldn't say the Republicans Trump somehow whether it's going on Joe Rogan or whatever it's doing or whether it's local stuff or you know who knows has got people to come out who' never voted before and you're right the Democrats Democrats have been very bad at that. Um, and you know, well, I would say an exception, um, and this is some of the model that I think

movement voter project falls is is Stacy Abrams did an amazing amount of groundwork in Georgia, right? Um, not just Stacy, but others um uh joined and and had their own organizations, but all of that combined really shifted um the landscape in Georgia. And what we believe is that's possible to do in other states with the right level of attention and investment. Yeah. Um and then I guess the other thing we have to talk about is is uh you know the since the voting rights act has been gutted supreme court you know

there's a lot of you could tell that in in Georgia and there's some very interesting conversations about you know voter roles and what have you but but uh in in in Georgia it was it became a much bigger uphill struggle right to to to keep the state and obviously we have Senate seat coming up in Georgia this fall as well which is going to be for John Olaf which is going to be a massive thing and let's hope you a great young senator which hopefully can can keep that but it's always going to be tough

in a state like that which is so so yeah so so so balanced on the razor's edge. Um so let's go back to the the uh the idea for a second of of you know and you had this obviously in your book. What do you need what do we need to do Oh my dogs didn't appreciate that. What do we need to do to to uh you know get more people included in the political system and thinking they should be voting and should be you know and trying to make a relationship between the act of voting and actively participating in politics to whatever

level and what happens you know um it always seems to me that you know for most Americans you've got you know you voted and then all of a sudden you didn't vote or whatever and this whip shaw thing happens and now Medicaid's changing dramatically and you you have these things on Reddit called There's a there's a whole sub subreddit called Leopards Ae my face, right? Which is the one about people who voted for voted for Trump and then all of a sudden their Medicaid was cut or what, you

know, they're not making those connections or what, right? So, how but I think it does seem to me we still have what 30% of the eligible voting population not voting. So, you know, how do we how do we how do we what's been proven to work to change that? So I think that people have to understand the connection between what's happening to them locally and how participating in in an election process and again local elections count too um makes a difference. So it starts actually with the listening what is it

that people need um and in their communities and making sure that uh folks are running to be responsive to those needs. you know, starting again at the local level. And that's the trust building. So, it's not just coming in like some outside expert and saying, "Well, this is what we think you need," but it's the folks who live and work in the states spending time with folks in community and listening to them and turning that into what the campaigns are about. Um, and so that's that's the real

grassroots. It's got to be two-way and and listening is a big part of that in my belief. Um, so I I think that um you know and then that needs to roll up to the national level of course, but if people can participate and see that it did matter that they voted and they got somebody who cleaned up a toxic waste dump, you know, down the street from them or something like that cuz and their kids are sick because of living near that toxic waste. That can make a difference. But they, you know, seeing

is believing. Um and and so the national stuff I think can just become really abstract. Um you know who who wins for president can just feel like it is not going to matter who I even vote for. Why bother? Um so there is a a sense that uh the the local part can start to bring people in more. There's a piece of of work that was done um through movement voter project um created an allyship with a group called vote er and they did a lot of registering people to vote who were sitting in um the emergency room

waiting um and they are there to access care um and and so it's kind of a amazing teachable moment with a captive audience um where doctors and nurses and folks were trained to just say and this was not the pack side. This was the nonprofit side so that it was nonpartisan. Um but it was really to just say, "Hey, uh if health care matters and to keep your health care, you know, sign up to vote." Yeah. And I think one of the sneaky things done in the one one big beautiful bill or whatever it's called was that a

lot of the Medicaid cuts aren't going to come until after the midterms, but they will be there before the next general. Yeah. Uh so a lot of education will need to be done around that. And I think um I'm certainly never going to call that beautiful and I'm not and not going to let them appropriate that word, misappropriate it. So you won't hear me calling it that. Yeah. Absolutely. All right. Fantastic. Okay. So remind us uh it is 8:00 Eastern on September the 4th. Um please please

come and join us and watch Gwande and his colleagues talking about stuff. It's going to last what an hour or so. It's one hour and you do not have to pay uh to come to the event. Um we hope that you'll be so inspired that you will want to donate to the cause. Um but you are absolutely welcome to sign up and just listen. So I think anybody watching this uh look forward to seeing you on there. We'll look forward to uh hearing what a tool has to say and yes hopefully uh raising some a little bit of money to help the

the good folks at Movement Vodapac uh do this grassroots work which you know is uh sadly very very necessary given what's going on right now. Thank you Matthew I really appreciate your endorsement of this and um your opportunity to share this with people. All right, I'm talking with Rosary Day. I'm having a day job as a day health strategies, but we'll be talking about her night night work, which is uh helping the folks at Healthcare Leaders for Democracy. Um, and Rosie, I look forward to seeing you then. Looking

forward to it. Great. Thank you.