Title: Sachin Jain, Scan Health Plan
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HupOfi7AD7k
Language: en
Duration: 25:56
Upload Date: Nov 11, 2025

Transcription:

Matthew Holt, another TTV spotlight and   one of my uh old colleagues and friends   from the world of healthcare. This is   Sachin Jane. Suchin is a oh let's see   he's done a lot of stuff uh Harvard M   hang on Harvard MD Harvard MBA correct   >> yes right wrong Harvard MBA in the Obama   administration when the Affordable Care   Act was going uh did some time at MC did   some time at Koreans   these days   >> did some time you're making it sound   making it sound worse than it was   >> well you know perhaps you should be   doing time after those places perhaps   you should be doing time which may come   up in the conversation we're about to   But now is it a very worthy uh nonprofit   set up by a bunch of grumpy old people   in the 60s7s   >> '7s 12 angry we call them the 12 angry   seniors be respectful Matthew be   respectful you know   >> respectful 12 angry men and women or   women and men in uh in Southern   California which is now the scan health   plan. So Sachin uh you are known for

being a CEO who writes and uh is   externally focused a lot. I'm sure   you're also internally focused on what   you're doing in your actual day job, but   um you write on a number of places, a   lot on LinkedIn, a lot on Forbes,   elsewhere. Not enough on the healthare   blog. I don't know why, but   >> you you've never invited me.

You've   never invited me.   >> That's not true. You you've been   published on healthcare blog.   >> It's been a long time.   >> It's been a while. We we'll get you   back. But um couple of things. So,   really brief. Uh I want to cover a bunch   of topics. We've talked in the past and   we just went back about things like   Medicare and Medicare Advantage.

We've   talked a lot about um we've talked a   little about primary care and I'd like   to talk more about primary care but   obviously you care more which is one of   the sort of revolutionary primary care   for senior organizations that that   started all of this conversation back   way back when. Um and also you know   you've written you've you've written   recently about essentially bad behavior   in healthcare.

Um, maybe maybe maybe you wouldn't quite   call it that, but you know, the sort of   slippery slope of justification of why I   >> By the way, I I just want to compliment   you. Your LinkedIn post where you called   out all the goofy companies and the Time   magazine that that was circulating on   all my text threads.

Uh, and there was a   conversation about the size of your um,   uh, courage, let's just put it that way.   And uh, it was good. You know, it was   good.   >> I have I have clients who are so   actually I have clients on that list who   are really good companies. And I'm   going, if you're going to put out a list   and you claim you're going to do all   this investigation, why not figure out   that five of these people just should   not be there because they're not even   companies, but you let alone whether or   not the others are the best company in   their sector. And   >> well, I think the truth is that the   publishing industry has like devolved   into like list making, right? So, uh you   know, you just produce a list, then you   charge to be on the list, and then uh   you charge to use the badge to be on the   list. So, you know, my my PR team uh   deals with that all the time. So it's uh   >> well if you want to pay to be on my list   I'll happily create the list. You may   >> how much how much Matthew how much   >> what you got on you? Come on.   But but let's get serious for a second.   you wrote a piece in Forbes in which you   basically said look every everyone said   it everyone gets blamed and you know um   there's a slippery slope and whether you

know you can't it used maybe you used to   be able to say well the for-profit guys   were bad the nonprofit guys were good   and maybe you used to say pharma were   bad but you know hospitals and doctors   were good but there's now the corrosive   impact of money and uh all kinds of   other stuff in healthcare all over the   place so can you quickly restate what   you said in that article and then let's   talk a bit about Look, I you know I came   across this term when I was a medical   student which was called ethical   erosion. And um you know the the way the   medical educators used to talk about it   is that they admit a whole group of um   students who you know want to be primary   care doctors who minister to the poor   and then four years later they become uh   dermatologists and radiologists. Uh and   you know there's their original   intentions have kind of been wiped away.   I always took issue with that term   because I'm not sure that those essays   talking about wanting to be primary care   doctors were actually all that honest in   the first place. But I do think most   people start out their careers in   healthcare interested in making a

difference, helping people, and then   over the course of a decade or two, they   become complicit in stuff that is really   like not great for people and not great   for patients. And then, you know, we   have to buy the corporate pabum after   the fact, the no margin, no mission   stuff.

uh that really ends up being the   justification for some of those bad   behaviors. And I'll just give you a   couple of examples. You know,   pharmaceutical companies will develop,   you know, life-saving medications, but   then price them beyond the reach of   people uh to be able to afford them. Uh   you know, health systems say that they   really take care of the poor and the   sick.

Uh and then they make people poor   and they make people sick when they uh   you know, send them to collections and   they end up in medical bankruptcy. For   those of you who don't know, bankrupt   health care is the number one cause of   bankruptcy in this country and has been   for a while now. U manage care. You   know, we talk about, you know, there's   companies that brag about wanting to   take care of the whole person and make a   big difference in people's lives.

Um but   at the end of the day, when people most   need care, we often times are denying it   rather than facilitating it. And you   know, we tell ourselves convenient   stories about this. We say, "Oh, we do   this because you know, if we didn't do   this, then we couldn't necessarily do   the bigger thing.

" Um, and you know,   some of that's right, but a lot of it's   wrong. And, um, when I published the   piece, there were some notable, you   know, managed care executives who said,   you know, why are you pointing the   finger at the health insurance industry?   Um, you know, uh, you know, we're just   part of a broken system.

That that   actually came after we we launched our   new campaign, Health Insurance is   broken, which is our advertising   campaign that you should check out if   you haven't seen it. And the truth is it   that's exactly what we do. We kind of   deflect blame by saying the whole thing   is fubar.

Um, but you know, we're not   necessarily taking a look at the part of   it that we created or we preside over or   that we're leading. And that's that's   honestly not right. Um, you know, and I   I think how you define problems   ultimately influences how you solve   problems. And you know, we have a lack   of clarity in our problem definition.

And I'll just say now, you know, 20   years in healthcare, I, you know, when   you when we met, I was younger. I had I   was thinner. I had more hair. I had more   optimism.   >> Not not much. You're still looking   pretty okay. Yeah. But   >> well, you were looking rough back then.   One of the two.   >> Yeah, maybe.

>> I on the other hand, a lot greater.   Sure. But I had more optimism, but now   I've kind of been in it, right? I've   been in the public for profit. I've been   in uh now not for profofit. I've been in   the delivery system. I've worked for a   pharma company. I'm one of the few   people who's kind of touched bases in   all the sectors.

Some would say I can't   keep a job. But the point is the point   is is I I've seen it all. And I and now   I can say with some confidence that no   one thinks they're doing the wrong   thing. But when you actually talk to   patients, they think we're really doing   the wrong thing. And you know, we deal   with the cognitive dissonance of doing   the wrong thing by saying, you know,   people don't really understand.

Healthc   care is complex, but some things are   really simple. Um, you know, we   shouldn't be limiting people to a 1.7,   you know, day length of stay after   they've had an ST elevation MI. Yet, one   of the big national uh for-profit health   insurance companies does just that as   part of their utilization management   procedures.

And the truth is that the   the the genius doctor who came up with   that, you know, was probably thinking,   "Oh, you know, I'll there's probably   some unnecessary hospitalizations.   People are staying long, you know, this   is a way to actually, you know, maintain   costs or contain costs." But some of the   stuff we do just gets stupid after a   while. And we don't call it what it is.

And we've all become numb to it. I think   we all have these moments of clarity,   you know, I call them moments of clarity   where we suddenly start seeing things   clearly and but then we go back to sleep   um right after we've had the moment of   clarity. And that's what I'm kind of   advocating for is more moments of   clarity, more ethical reflection, more   ethical renewal.

Uh and you know, I want   us I want us to bend the arc of the   industry to a more ethical place. Now,   many people will say it's just the   incentives and the incentives are messed   up and people are slaves to incentives.   Uh, I don't think that's true. Uh, I   don't I think that, you know, we we as   people have some ability to reason   morally.

Um, it's what makes us   different from animals. And I think we   have to, you know, kind of think about   ourselves that way and hold ourselves to   a higher standard.   >> So, the the the question I have for you   around that is, and I've said this, like   we're all at it, and you know, I   go back in my background, you know, the   things I've done in my career.

I've   worked as a consultant for every side of   this thing and you know there's no   there's no purity and it kind of all   goes down to I saw a comedian called   Jimmy Carr the other night and uh he's   British comedian who's very very very   offensive and very proper while he's   being offensive very funny um and he's   one of the comedians who talked who went   to Saudi Arabia right took the took the   Saudi money and there was a big comedy   festival in Saudi Arabia and someone   shouted in the audience saying what   about your trip you know heckling he   likes heckling and said what about your   trip to Saudi Arabia what was it like   and he went lucrative was his word,   right? And then afterwards he said,   "Well, but there were people like us. I   gave the same show. They want to have   western cult, you know, he he started   justifying going there." But in the end,   he basically admitted, "I did this just   for the money and my moral compass   doesn't stop me." And we're seeing, you   know, this this kind of thing has   happened a lot. We have clearly a n   national trend with Trump on down as to,   you know, we're not too worried about   the truth and the money, whatever. and

and we have people like you kicking   against it in healthcare and I want to   try and distinguish if everybody's at   it. There are clearly people who are   doing outright fraud and and and taking   healthare, you know, and you see these   people occasionally get busted and   >> you and you call them up.

I call them   out on your LinkedIn post. I   >> I'm talking about the people the Justice   Department arrest for like, you know,   having fake clinics and whatever.   There's a ton of actual real theft and   fraud in the system. And then there's a   group of people who view this as a way   to even though legally to extract money.

And I'm think there's a lot of private   equity people, you know, the student   hospitals and prime and you a bunch of   the private equity stories about people   who who've done things that, you know,   now they have a massive yacht and these   hospitals are closed and poor people   have no care and coverage.

And you can   look at that and go, you know, these are   really bad actors and we got to be able   to figure out some way to legislate   them, get them out of the system. And   then you've got like you said all your   colleagues in the old farmer business   who have done a there are you know we   would still be in a pandemic were it not   for what those scientists and and those   organizations did and yet now you know   they're still trying as you said they're   charging stuff that's so expensive no   one can afford it and and uh same thing   goes ac across the board. Where do you   draw the line about who should be in who   should be out who can be reformed and   who can't be reformed? Look, I I think   everybody can be reformed and I think,   you know, outright fraud needs to be   punished, but I I'm actually mostly   talking to the people who are mostly   ethical or mostly think of themselves as   ethical or want to think about   themselves as ethical and just pushing   them to pause and reflect on who they   are, what they're doing, why they're   doing it, and whether it's the right   thing, and whether there might be   another way. And I think that um you   know, I I wake up every day and I think

about you know, the opiate crisis and I   think about how you know, my dad was a   pain management physician. I used I grew   up going to all our vacations were   aligned with pain management conferences   and you know I would go and hear these   sessions about pain being the fifth   vital sign.

Um and we would you know   hear about pain being undertreated and   yet we were in the middle of like   creating the opiate crisis. uh you know   the Sacklers were were fueling that   right and um you know I I'm asking   myself are we part are we somehow part   of today's opiate crisis right like are   the things we are doing are are they a   set of practices that you know 50 years   from now people will look back and be   like man those guys were right um and   like that's the stuff that I'm talking   about Matthew is like we how how do we   look at where we are right now um and   and like look at ourselves in the mirror   and think about what are the practices   that are really abnormal that we've   normalized that we think are um that you   know future generations will frown upon   us for and I think there's a lot of them   actually and and I think that that's   that that is part of the ethical   reasoning is like you know in 50 years   from now if you were to look back at   this health care system you know with

some remove some distance without your   salary depending on it you know would   you would you still build it the way   we've built it would you still do the   things that you're doing would you will   sanction the behaviors that we're   sanctioning. And the truth is, no, we   wouldn't.

There's no part of any of us   that would do that. Um, and all it takes   is one health episode for you or, you   know, someone you love to wake to wake   up. And the problem I think we have in   our industry is we got a lot of healthy   people running these places who don't   actually who who don't, you know, or at   least they're physically healthy, maybe   not mentally healthy, but the point is   is that they're not necessarily having   the right conversations, you know, about   like how this stuff really shows up   until it shows up for their own family.   And then, by the way, everything seems   to work really well when when they need   it to just cuz they pick up the phone   and they actually make it happen. But   man, what about those people who don't   have that access? What about, you know,   the people who don't have, you know, you   know, every managed care executive or or   health system CEO on speed dial to kind   of navigate the system? And, you know, I   think that that's the world we need to   think about. We need to think a little   bit about h, you know, how do we think   more clearly about what it is that we're   doing? And most of most of it kind of   sucks, Matthew. like just being honest   like that's you know so you know the

other you know we you know the other   thing I'll just tell you like   >> I really think about this question of   what are we going to what are future   generations going to judge us really   negatively for and you know the other   one is homelessness right like you know   something that like it should not exist   in a country as rich as ours like we   should not have people you know on the   street corners uh you know with huge   mental health problems and addiction   issues but again living in Southern   California you live in Northern   California it's like completely normal   normalize like what what are we   thinking? Why is this okay?   >> Yeah. No, absolutely. So, let me give   you one example. The book I just read, I   hadn't actually met the the guy yet, but   there's a guy called Luke Messik who's a   PhD in history and a and a doctor. I   don't if you run run into him yet. He   wrote a book called Your Money Your   Life, which is about hospital suing   patients. But where it came to remember   is that, you know, he's an ER he was an   ER doc resident and people would come in   and, you know, they'd say, "Don't do   this. I can't afford it." He said, "No,   no, the hospital will take care of it."   And then he figured out the hospital was   his hospital was suing a bunch of people

and he went down to the courthouse and   you know he took it back to his   administration and he thought he was   going to get fired. But they were just   like oh my god we're actually and it was   just on automatic. People there were   just like oh well if you aren't sending   their bills we'll send them out to   collections.

And then the collection   agency   >> well look the New York Times did the   expose on the on the revup uh operation.   Um you know uh there you know uh UVA I   think had some issues.   >> UA is it UC UC Health in Colorado has   done   >> Yeah. I think that, you know, these   things have largely been cleaned up uh   because of the shaming that's happened.

>> Well, we've been talking about for 20   years and kind of started to be cleaned   up now, but not perfectly, you know, but   what I guess my point was that he was   one person said, I'm actually going to   do something about that, right? I'm   going to figure it out. And most people   will go, well, I think it's, you know, I   can't believe it's that bad.

>> And and and then realize it is, you   know, I don't know how much. But but   there is this thing that happens which   is like we we there's a part of human   behavior which is unsavory that no one   likes to talk about which is like bad   things happen and we kind of become   accustomed to it.

I mean it's it's how   the Holocaust happened. I don't know if   you know you know about the Stanford   prison experiment.   >> This Yeah. Yeah. The Stanford prison   experiment. I mean this is like exactly   what we're talking about. You've got   good people who are suddenly in a   position of authority start treating   people terribly.

Um or more recently   there was the the Max documentary on the   Alabama prison system. I don't know if   you've   but it's like you look at the atrocities   that are taking place that somehow get   swept under the rug that people know   about that that we've normalized and you   know my team is tired of hearing me say   it but like what are the abnormal   behaviors that we've normalized that we   should should make abnormal again.

That's the work we have to do in   healthcare and um you know we talk a lot   about leadership in healthcare. We talk   and and when we talk about leadership,   we talk about CEOs who show up on these   fancy lists of top 50 this and top 10   that and top and it's usually tied to   revenues, you know, but when we talked   about leadership, when we, you know,   when we were growing up as kids, we   talked about Malcolm X and Martin Luther   King and Gandhi and George Washington   and people who kind of like stood up to   the man. Um, and you know, these days   we, you know, when we talk about   leadership, we talk about the CEO of   Scan or Joe Hospital. Like that that's   wrong, right? like we should be thinking   about we should be thinking about people   like this guy who wrote this book who   who did something right and that that's   those are that's what ethical leadership   really looks like in healthcare and we   need more of it right now we need more   of it than ever before okay well let me   give you props about one thing and I   want to talk about primary care so the   one thing is the work you you you   mentioned homelessness and the work   you're doing uh at scan with uh health   sorry healthcare and action partners and   action cover the name of the healthare   action health action group which

coincidentally is run by my former   partner business partner how it survive.   Well, not coincidentally, you knew her   and uh I'm sure you talked to her about   about that before before you offered the   job. But just   tell me what it does and then real   quickly there is an incentive, right?   California fix changed how it was doing   Medicaid and started paying for stuff   they hadn't paid for before and maybe   that goes away.

So tell me, you know, it   was a good thing, but it was an   incentive thing. So tell me a bit about   it.   >> No, listen, we we did it. We were going   to do it whether there was an incentive   thing or not. I just want to be clear   about that. We, you know, um, I did   homeless medical work, you know, as an   undergraduate student.

I started a   clinic in Harvard Square focused on, uh,   people experiencing homelessness. And I   didn't want to be one of those people   who wrote the essay about their work   with the homelessness homeless. And then   20 years later was, you know, didn't do   anything about it. And I, you know, when   I got to SCAN and accepted the job at   SCAN, I told the board, fastest group of   people experiencing homelessness is   older adults.

Scan is focused on older   adults. I want to do something on   homelessness. And they said, we'll do   it. And so, um, true to their word, they   they funded us to start this new medical   group called Healthcare in Action. It's   a play on the the word action in the in   Scan's name, Senior Care Action Network.   And Indu um is our second CEO of the   group.

Uh, you know, and she's, you   know, Indu, she's a force of nature. She   makes things happen. She's uh, you know,   driving the expansion of the group. It's   it's now uh, you know, all over Southern   California, have a bit of a presence in   Northern California. Last year we saw   5,000 unique individuals, 3,500 people   five times or more.

So when you think   about, you know, building a primary care   infrastructure for people experiencing   homelessness, we're doing it. We also   have this partnership with Cedar Sinai   where we enable safe discharges from the   hospital for people experiencing   homelessness so that we can reduce the   readmission rates for people   experiencing homelessness.

So it's been,   you know, a terrific journey. It has   been funded in part by CALAM dollars. uh   you know there's an ECM program enhanced   care management that pays you know   groups like ours to um you know see   people for episodes of care and manage   their care and help them navigate to   housing and um you know we've had   hundreds of people who found their way   to housing because of the work of this   group.

So um it's really missiondriven   work. It feels really good and yes Indu   is doing a great job leading the group.   Yeah. And I always like to say to when   all my friends and we meet up at Hell   for the comment, I say you Indu has now   got a real job doing something really   good, which is funny to say given given   the uh she's another MBA driven MD, you   know, so it's it's great it's great to   great to see what you're doing and that   that's wonderful.

But but let me ask two   brief questions about that. So one is I   mean clearly health care and healthare   people cannot cannot fix the housing   crisis alone. this I mean it's kind of   the it's we are the healthare where the   housing crisis shows up and and then   what happens if you know we have the big   beautiful bill and money starting to   leave medicare medical and uh and   Medicaid you know how I'd love you see a   lot of people building companies around   community health workers and all kind of   great great stuff for people with low   incomes and homeless homeless elsewhere   but what happens if that starts to go   away   >> you look how you define a problem   influences how you solve a problem and I   think homelessness has been defined as a   housing supply issue. Um I think that's   certainly part of the issue, but I think   it for many people experiencing   homelessness, it is a healthcare issue.   Yeah.   >> Um and you know, it is a health care   problem whether it's a behavioral health   issue or addiction or a untreated   chronic disease that gets worse uh when   you know when people are homeless or

when they do when when those conditions   do get worse, they become homeless. And   um I think part of any sustainable   solution to homelessness is going to be   a healthcare solution. and we feel like   we're building a better mousetrap for   that. You know, if the funding goes   away, we're going to have to take a hard   look at things.

Um, you know, it's very   missional work. Uh, we have over $34   million in revenue, you know, in the   group. It's, you know, started from   scratch 5 years ago. So, it's had a, you   know, tremendous, uh, growth trajectory,   but we we may have to take a, you know,   a look at it and try to find other   sources of funding, other way of of   sustaining it.

So,   >> so I know where I think the money should   come from, and this goes back to my   primary care argument. I've written   about this. Um, we have many and I I   don't I don't know what scans number is,   so I I I need to go look at your 990 and   I'll figure out what their number is,   how much you get paid.

But I've done a   lot of this looking at some of the big   groups like UPMC and Essential, the rest   of it. And there's a ton of money. I   mean, there's billions and billions,   probably a couple hundred billions   sitting on the balance sheets of big   nonprofit health systems. And my view is   that, you know, they were saving this   money up for a rainy day.

They had their   any day in March 2020 and they decided   that the people who should bail them out   was the taxpayer and I'm not saying   hospitals in general didn't do a great   job co a lot of there was a lot of great   work done um a lot of especially the   frontline staff did amazing things and   and figured out the disease rate so I   have a lot of praise for the frontline   staff and hospitals but the   organizations I don't think sort of used   that crisis to their advantage to change   how they got paid or what they were   doing and we didn't really go we didn't   go to where we should be going which is   a more globally   >> but well I don't think they call it glo   just can we figure out a way to get more   primary care treatment to the people who   need it and you've obviously hit on a   very small relatively small but very   very needy group but there's a lot of   others who who need that as well and   when you were at Camel you were dealing   with a lot of seniors who needed primary   care and needed all kinds of services   that weren't on the CPT codes for a   primary care doc who had seven minutes   to see them essentially

>> so um   >> what do you what would you do? What do   you think we should be doing about that   whole primary care piece? And how do we   convince the boards and the people   running these big organiz especially   these pretty huge organizations who are   now merging and getting bigger and   richer?   >> Yeah.

Look, the future   >> a different way.   >> The truth is is that most quote unquote   health systems are hospital systems.   >> Yeah.   >> And I think there needs to be a a   conversation in the boardrooms of of and   maybe you can make it happen, Matthew,   you've got a big voice. Uh there there   going to be conversations in every   boardroom about how do we become a   health system um and and not be a   hospital system and how do we get paid   in ways that enable us to focus more on   outpatient care than on inpatient care.

And this is again where I'll go back to   the leadership crisis in healthcare.   We've had the policy instruments to do   this since at least 2010 but even before   that. Um and I would say most healthcare   organizations have said you know what   we're doing great on fee for service and   let's just keep growing the number of   hospital beds.

We need more hospital   beds. The conversation that needs to be   happening inside of every boardroom in   America and you know needs in every   healthcare boardroom in America should   be how do we need how do we create a   world in which we need fewer healthcare   services not more which you know it most   people want to compare healthcare to   other industries up and to the right is   not virtuous in healthcare um and we've   unfortunately convinced ourselves that   up and to the right is virtuous it's not   virtuous and uh you know that's been I   think the composition of healthcare   boardrooms has slanted very heavily in   the direction of financial services and   people from, you know, very successful   businesses. Healthcare is not that   business. Uh, you know, so we're not   selling hats, guys. We're not selling   widgets. We're we're we're actually   trying to make sure people stay healthy.   And the best way to do that is through   primary care. Best way to get paid to do   that in the current world is through   capitate arrangements, through ACOs,   through um through, you know, uh   risk-based MA contracts, all of which

have existed for a long time and which   many health systems choose to stay away   from because they're feeding at the   trough of of fee for service uh and and   can't pull themselves away from it.   >> All right, I know you have to hop.   Sachin, thanks a lot for going on TTV   and chatting with me about this.

Let's   hope we can do this again soon. And also   I'll make you write about this, but I   think the the bit about how to do that   um is the bit that that you know needs   some campaign around it. And I I   definitely have some thoughts which I've   written up and I'll write up more. All   right.   >> But there is there is definitely you   know I somehow we turned into the fact   that if you're a primary care you know   you come to medical school you want to   become a primary care document six   you're three times better off being a   surgeon or radiologist. And we've got to   turn that around. I think it's the   that's the big piece because   >> yeah but you know there are there are   you know organizations that have   participated in alternative contracting   models that pay their primary care   doctors like they pay their surgeons   >> and I think and I think you know we   should we did that at Caremore I mean   candidly so I think there's plenty of   opportunity to do that. All right,   fantastic. We're talking with Sasha Jen,   CEO of Scan Healthan. Sachin, thanks for   your time and look forward more this   conversation.   >> Thank you. Great to see you.


