Title: Sami Inkinen, Virta Health

URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dvwz1tHgYIM
Language: en
Duration: 00:24:00
Upload Date: Oct 21, 2025

Transcription:

[Music] Matthew H with the healthcare blog. I'm here with Sammy Incanin who has I now done 10 years of Vera. Is that right Sammy? That is accurate. Personally, I've been building Vera for 11 years, but we just officially the company turned 10 years and wasn't Wasn't most of the 11 the first year on a boat in the middle of the Pacific getting lost? You are pretty uh well- read man.

I remember you. We've had this discussion before. You just forgotten it because running a startup has adultled your brain, but you were you were rowing to Hawaii with your wife when you discovered you were pre-diabetic. Yeah. Well, you Yes. You're referencing what may sound like a crazy thing for listeners.

My wife and I hopped into a rowing boat and rode unsupported from California to Hawaii over 45 days and 3 hours. So, but who's counting? But, uh, we're still married and that was kind of a kickoff for building Verta as well. Yeah. And I think it's quite fair to say that is crazy, but that's all right. Not not as crazy as what's happened.

Maybe not as crazy as what happens. All right. For those people who don't know, don't recall and get confused by the number of companies that start with VI and health healthcare digital health. Ver is in the business of reversing diabetes and you do that. How? Yeah. So yes, let me just clarify the mission.

The official mission is to reverse type 2 diabetes and obesity in 1 billion people. And diabetes and obesity are two manifestations of metabolic disease. And more broadly, we reverse I'm losing my voice. Hopefully I don't have metabolic disease. Uh we reverse metabolic disease at the root cause level.

And your question was how is that possible? And fundamentally what is driving metabolic disease which now affects I think 93% of Americans today uh of which more than half are people with obesity or diabetes the fundamental problem is poor nutrition food so fundamental driver of metabolic disease including diabetes and obesity is food and you cannot fix food with drugs and I've said that many times you cannot fix bad food with drugs.

And so how Verta reverses diabetes and obesity is combination of two things. One individualized nutrition and then two in order to achieve the outcomes and adherence and retention we use sort of intense tele medicine to deliver that lifestyle treatment that uses food as a medicine. So combination of food, nutrition and intense individualized tele medicine that allows us to support patients and help them be successful with their food choices.

That's the easiest explanation I can come up with. No. So I get that. Now one of one of the things that is well known and certainly was in the origin story is that the type of nutrition you're dealing with is a heavily ketobased diet. Um it's very specific. Is that still the case as to where you are? We'll get into these drugs you may have heard about later but um and where they play in this whole thing but uh is is there been any fundamental change in what you're doing or you just doing it at a bigger scale now? Uh there is fundamental change and I

will somebody will say now he's going to be splitting hairs. No, I'm not splitting hairs. Fundamentally we have our own nutrition protocol and we've had since day one uh and different diets have come and gone. Uh but we have our own nutrition protocol. That's point one. So we have our own nutrition protocol and have had since day one.

So I don't want to apply labels that other people own. So we have our own nutrition protocol. Second thing is every patient eats different things. So it is highly individualized. We have vegans, vegetarians, meateers, pescatarians uh for personal reasons, religious reasons, other reasons all over the place.

and we've treated now hundreds of thousands of patients, Native American tribes, truck drivers, people on Medicaid, Medicare. So that's sort of the second point. It is highly individualized. And then thirdly is we have a very specific point of view. How do you reverse metabolic disease? We reverse metabolic disease with food by making sure that you are not hungry and you don't have cravings.

So unlike practically all the other diet exercise programs, we counel our patients to eat to satiety. So you should never be hungry and you should be burning your excess body fat while you eat healthy. And that's a it sounds simple but it's a very very critical piece of how vera works and why it works because we all know that willpower runs out usually at the wedding photo.

So willpower paste programs usually work for 90 days and then the photo is taken and all bets off. So yeah, that that's kind of the nutrition approach. Of course, we've scaled massively since since our early days. So the so it but in general it's a more proteinrich carbohydrate low approach and it's trying to get out the sort of you know excessive carbohydrates of the American diet in general.

That's that's fair to say. So we yeah we we need to reduce your well if you have diabetes you have a high blood glucose and you have to take a lot of drugs. We need to lower your blood glucose. We also need to lower your insulin levels because insulin stores all the food most of the food mainly as fat.

So you have to reduce those and a key way of reducing those is you want to reduce your blood sugar which you can reduce by reducing uh sugar and carbohydrate intake. So that is the essential part. So our patients don't drink soda don't eat bagels and and donuts. That's that's for sure. Uh even if somebody thinks everything in moderation uh some of the things you should not really have much in moderation. So that's true.

So uh a lot of people have said including on the stage of health department I think in front of you oh this stuff can't work. You can't reverse diabetes. You can only manage it. Um we don't do a great job for the people who have it of managing it even like getting the tests themselves get them on their medications for people who have more traditional approaches to it.

Um but you have a lot of data now 10 years worth of data and you running sort of clinical studies from the start. what does your data say about what's actually been achieved um in terms of the people on the program and how easy is it for people to stay on the program? Yeah, I think that's I remember when we started working for 2015 and say, "Hey, we think we can reverse type two diabetes.

That's what we're going to do." Understandably, I got a lot of eye rolls, wet towels in the face. Even from a very uh respected key opinion leaders and others that you can't reverse type two diabetes, it's chronic progressive, you cannot do that. So that was 2015. Now I can say with high degree of confidence that irrefutably we have proven that not only you can reverse type two diabetes but you can do it systematically and you could do it at scale and you can do it with the real Americans who are obese and suffering you know in the middle of

America lower income and across all population. So let me share a couple of data points. So I just mentioned that we turned 10 years first five years we were running a prospective clinical trial. We had not much to show other than amazing data but practically zero revenues and we're talking hundreds of thousands or so patients.

Second five years, last 5 years we've really scaled commercially. So we've now treated hundreds of thousands of patients companies hundreds of millions of revenue. We I think we've shared public that we passed 160 million revenue run rate growing 60% yearover year. Sorry, more than 80% year of year across about 550 or more pay your clients.

So I think the scale at which we now operate we've been able to show that it is real in terms of the specific numbers. One we deliver uh sort of ompic like weight loss 13% average weight loss which is sustained at year one year two and again purely nutritionally. Um we eliminate close to 90% of insulin which is unheard of in type 2 diabetes.

More than 60% of our patients completely reverse their diabetes at one year. again unheard of and in in addition to that weight loss and type two diabetes reversal as I mentioned earlier we actually address the root cause of metabolic disease so the following things improve blood pressure comes down okay published and perivid cardiovascular disease risk is lowered published and perivid uh kidney markers improve and we can reverse early chronic kidney disease published and perid liver fat markers improve uh inflammation

improves so these are kind of it's almost sounds like too good to be true and the kind of outcomes that were told to us that's absolutely impossible. And then the last data point I say because once I convince people like oh my god I guess nutrition can work. I guess you can reverse metabolic disease that's cool but nobody's going to stick to it.

Our one year adherence is twice as high as just taking GLP1. So TLP1 adherence is 30 to 40% something like that. one year we have 83% one year so it's twice as high and so I again obviously I represent the company I'm a founder but given the scale given the 10-year track record I feel very confident saying that metabolic disease reversal with nutrition is not only possible it's systematically possible with people who most of the society thinks have no willpower like this is absolutely the future I I can't see I cannot not unsee

and our patients cannot unsee the change that they have gone through by reversing metabolic disease. And I'll I'll say one more thing. We were celebrating our 10y year anniversary last Saturday at West Lafayette, Indiana, which let me tell you is not a very rich town. West Lafayette, Indiana near Purdue University.

We invited 200 or so our early patients to come to a park on a Saturday afternoon. more than hundred showed up and these are people who are lower middle class um not you know the real Americans and they showed up in order to come and shake my hand and the rest of the team and say I wanted to come here and tell you you saved my life and you saved my spouse's life often times as well you saved my life like never give up what you're doing and that kind of truth truth you can't hide forever.

So that's why I say with a hydro career confidence that yeah disease reversal is real and it's here to stay and obviously we are trying to run as fast as we can to scale the positive impact. So let let's let's talk about the the the two you know things. So you you've now uh you said treated hundreds of thousands of patients.

I don't how many people are going through the system at any one time but you also mentioned that there's a single GP1 which probably is now teach treat treating millions of patients and probably costs rather more than verd program. I I would guess I don't know how much the the average cost of the program uh that you that you're I mean I know you've got a DC product obviously you have different pricing for few different types of employer and plan customers but um how do so two two questions and they're they're related but different one is how do you convince

people that you know the miracle drug actually isn't as much of a miracle as what you've developed um even though it's got you know this massive cultural and and and It's incredible impact behind it. Number one. And then number two is how do you manage within the verda patient population either people who've been on GOP ones or people coming off them, people who want to go on them.

What you know how do you actually manage them clinically or how do you how do you deal with GP GP1s and the patients who use them clinically? So first is the cultural thing and the second thing is what do you actually do? Yeah. AB. Absolutely. Well, first I will say, you know, GLB ones have existence existed since 2005 when the first ones were approved.

Yeah. But the one that really started working was only in the last sort of 8 10 years, right? Um well, they've been in type two diabetes care for for for 20 years and a couple of years approved for uh treating obesity. So So these are not new drugs. And a good to thought experiment is have has type two diabetes disappeared and are all the people with type two diabetes skinny and lean.

The answer is no. So so clearly the GB ones did not solve metabolic disease and I here's the reason and this is and then I will answer your question. These drugs are absolutely wonderful drugs within the context of drugs. They will change how much you eat. You will eat less. They will change how much you eat, but they will not change what you eat.

And unless you change what you eat, you will not fundamentally become metabolically healthy and you will not see sustained long-term results. So that's just kind of fact and we've seen this time after time. Now to answer your so which is to say that they these drugs are helpful, but they aren't going to solve our metabolic disease crisis, obesity, and type two diabetes unless people actually eat stains what they eat.

And that's obviously what Verta is for, what you eat. Um, in terms of convincing, well, there's sort of two entities we need to convince. One is the plan sponsors, the employers, help on the government. Honestly, we don't really have to do anything there because they are all going, "Holy I covered them.

Now there's three month use, costs are going through the roof. Verta, can you help me responsibly cover these trucks? Like, there has to be some guardrails. There has to be some nutrition. I'd want to work with doctors who know how to prescribe and deprescribe this, not just, you know, all the med spars handing out the same thing like candy.

And again, I say this tongue and cheek. Hopefully that's not happening, but it seems to be happening. So, so convincing the payers is not a problem because they are coming to us left and right saying, I want to cover these trucks, but I want to do it responsibly. Can you help us? And the answer is of course we can help. how to convince the the patients you are absolutely try right there's billions of dollars going into marketing these things as miracle drugs right and so there's a lot of awareness like I want my piece of that and and so so what do

we do when we work with a plan sponsor employer health plan first of all they usually cover our nutrition based weight loss as a kind of a first line of defense and make it available it's our job and our provider's job to explain into patients and say, "Hey, these are the options available. We have a nutrition treatment that has worked for people like you.

Um, we know the side effects of nutrition, healthy nutrition, which is none. Drugs, there's always something and maybe there's something around the corner we don't know. So, we we just explained these are the options. If you're ready and willing to try nutrition first because it has worked for people like you, let's give it a try.

" Uh, and that's what we get paid for. Alberta doesn't get paid for, you know, drugs, so we don't make money. There's no economic incentives. There's no others. And then if we are hired as a responsible prescriber to write a script for GLP1s and somebody wants them, then that's our job to to write the script. So that's kind of the people coming in.

And I can tell you that more than half and this blows people mind more than half of the people coming to us specifically say hey I want my GB1 actually choose nutrition pathway just in the first conversation again this is between the provider and the patient so the patient ultimately patient choice once they come in obviously if you're nutrition we do what we do and hopefully deliver sustained weight loss which again I said 13% average at one year um if they come in and they get a TB1 script, then we immediately start helping with that what

you eat, not just how much you eat. Uh that's what we do. And then over time, usually the members reach a point during the first year when they're like, well, I think do I need this drug forever? And then it's a conversation between them and our provider. There's no hard and set date like you need to come off.

Most people don't want to be on injectable drug or any kind of a drug for the rest of their lives despite what you might treat in a press like chronic disease, obesity. You should be on these drugs forever. Well, people don't want to be like I haven't met a single patient who says I really want to take a drug for the rest of my life.

They only take it if they have to. And if we show them success with healthy food food like almost nobody says like I'd rather take a molecule that I inject into my body than food. Now there's people who may need to be in a drug if they can't be successful with food but majority can. So so that's kind of how it's so I am excited that these drugs exist because it's sort of a good last hope.

It's better than beriatric surgery and honestly it's been a tailwind for our business. So, uh, but it but you've come to but you are in some cases writing scripts for these and then you're trying to tailor people off. We prescribe and just to be and you're trying to tell them off every other kind of drug that they've been on as well if they get to reverse diabetes.

Um, if uh and and just to be clear when you write the script you're not also billing you're actually getting paid for the GP1. You're not you're not dispensing it. Yes. in in the 160 because you're seeing a lot of companies who have got massive revenue increase and you know that they're counting the cost of the drug that they're that they're spending and who knows what their margins on.

So let's talk about the the money real quick. You talk you released a press release saying you're at 160 million in is that uh is that is that what it's going to be this year? Is that the ARR for the next 12 months? Give me what's gone up. You say it's going up 80% a year just selling more of the same program to more people and getting more patients on it.

That's that's going on here. Yeah. So I think we've obviously you know finances are my lawyers and CFO they'll be care you put out a press release. Somebody had to look at this. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So our revenue run rate on an annualized basis is we've said publicly is more than 160 million. And I can confirm here it is much more than 160 million but we've crossed that.

So that's one thing and we have accelerated our year-over-year growth and I think the official number we've shared is it's more than 80% year-over-year. So as of now and still we're growing more than 80% year-over-year in in revenues and exactly as you uh said 0% of our revenue is drugs or GLP1. compounding or nothing.

It is the program and the offering that can reverse metabolic disease, type GW diabore hard work. Um, no and I get it and and congrats on the growth because it's really hard to run a essentially a medical group especially one doing what you're doing uh that grows at that rate. So let me ask the the two key questions. You may have noticed another company where you know the CEO well a certain Sean Duffy and his health finally made it to go public.

They're actually not yet profitable yet, but they are looking at they're a market cap, you know, with revenues are a little bit higher than what you're quoted, but not substantially higher. I mean, there, you know, they're 50 to 100 million more than what you're talking about.

Um, they're now public seems to be doing okay. The stock market seems to not hate it. Um, the window seems to be open for your kind of company. Um, and I said they're not profitable yet. They're claiming they're going to be profitable soon, but they don't haven't shown the number yet. So I'm not discussing the you know the hinge health of the world by Daniel Perez you know hacked off half the company and made it very profitable was very explicit about that last week at rock health but uh where are you in that process are you know so close to

profitability profitable still investing away uh and then I assume all those folks who gave you money all those all all over those years want some back at some point what's the next step for you guys regarding that IPO window yeah well there's lots of questions there Yeah. So, like I said, we've accelerated our growth uh now more than 80% year-over-year, but we have done that not at the expense of profitability.

We've improved our unit economics and overall company profitability while we've accelerated growth. Have we explicitly turned the corner? I I will save that for the next press release. Those types of words. So I I won't comment directly but I will say that uh we've been able to grow very cashefficiently and last time we raised equity for Verta was early 2021 so four years ago.

So that hopefully that tells that we have wasn't that soft banker they don't care about that stuff. No, no, no. In any case, um, so yeah, so we are I would say we've been able to scale very very very cash efficiently and as a company uh we will be appropriately profitable. We can already tell that because if you can scale while improving unit and overall company profitability, uh it's it's very good news.

And then you I think you asked an IPO. You know, my previous company, Trullia, we went public 2012 on New York Stock Exchange. So, I know the benefits and I also know the kind of what it takes and uh how hard it is. So, we we don't take it lightly, but I think when the time is right, it it is a logical next step for our type of a company.

It'll be helpful and it's an accelerant for for um for the company growth. So, it's definitely a plan to be an independent long-term company, but I I can't talk about dates or timing uh other than uh it could be a useful step for our growth. Well, no one quite knows how that window is open. I mean, Amard's proved there's appetite for it and that the window's open.

The stock market seems to be still crazy. As long as you pretend there's some AI somewhere in the nutrition, you can you can you or this or it's crypto, you can you can get a massive premium. Um and we'll see how we'll see how long that lasts. But I'm I'm excited to see not only you guys, but also a bunch of the other of your sort of cohort make it out because there were a lot of there was a lot of junk that came out in in 2021 and 2020 and and a lot of companies who who you know didn't hadn't built what looked like a good sustainable business and that weren't particularly

doing quote unquote good and uh it's great to see what uh what you built and so I wish you the best of luck with it. Thank you so much. And I I will say the same thing because I building a company to a scale where you can even entertain the idea that you would go public and that kind of profitability is incredibly hard and it's statistically impossible.

So anyone who gets there, including many of the names you've uh mentioned, it is freaking awesome. And you know, I I know all these guys and girls who built and it's amazing. I'm so happy for them and you know behind the scenes trying to help uh peers succeed and so it is awesome. So well done all these digital health companies that have gotten public and gotten that kind of scale. It's it's absolutely amazing.

Fantastic. All right, I have to let you go. I've been talking with Sammy Inken. He is the CEO of Verta Health reversing diabetes and doing it you know and and getting paid to do it. What what more could you want Sammy? Thanks for your time. Thank you Matthew.
