Title: Samira Daswani, Manta Cares
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ustBGY6_dsQ
Language: en
Duration: 00:50:47
Upload Date: April 24, 2026

Transcription:

Hi, Matthew Holton on TC Spotlight. I'm   here with Samira Dwani. Samira is the   CEO of Manticare, which is helping uh   cancer. I would say survivors but not   yet survivors, people, people who have   cancer deal with what they have. Um u   and this came from a very personal   experience that you yourself had, Samir.

So Sam, you uh you were a a high-flying   Mackenzie consultant and then you uh got   diagnosed with breast cancer. Is that   right?   >> Uh almost. I was a high-flying Mackenzie   consultant for a hot second and then in   digital health startups when I got   diagnosed.   >> Okay. Um so he so you went from, you   know, something that was pretty dubious   to something else was pretty dubious and   now you're doing something really good.

>> All right. Close enough. So uh before we   talk about Madicares, what was your   experience like as a patient?   >> Uh so I got diagnosed um couple of weeks   after 30 stage 2 breast cancer and I had   about 18 months of active treatment. Um   123 appointments, 18 infusions, 5 ER   visits, uh etc etc.

I am incredibly   incredibly privileged. I am educated. I   worked in oncology. My family shows up.   My entire family shows up in full force.   And despite all of that, it was almost   like we were on a treacherous hike,   but we didn't have access to a map or   the right tools.   >> Right.   >> We were kind of lost and that was not a   fun feeling for me.

>> Yeah. I've had certainly uh a lot of   people had sort of experiences like that   where they're the the sort of navigation   around what they're doing is very very   tricky indeed and there are people   trying to do navigation obviously   players players doing that kind of thing   both in the digital health world but   also in the sort of traditional health   world um but also you know there's just   I have a a friend who wrote a book about   this called Sarah McDonald and uh you   know she literally got diagnosed and was   told oh you know oh I'm the I can   diagnose you but I I can't treat you um   you have to call that other other person   to treat you and that that's like a you   have this terrible thing and can you   wait for four weeks before they see you?   You know that there's a lot of uh very   unnerving stuff for patients oxygen the   whole cancer process even when they're   when they're in the system. So uh you   built mandares to fix this.   >> I did.   >> All right. So what is the basic   principle behind this? If I if I uh   you're in the elevator and you be the   venture capitalist. What is what is the

elevator pitch from?   >> So the elevator pitch is that we're a   clinically trusted AI enabled platform   that helps a patient navigate and manage   cancer from A to Z.   >> Go ahead. Go ahead. Keep going. Long the   elevator is going long way.   >> Long ride.   >> The slow elevator going the long way.   >> Exactly. We got the long one.

Um core to   the platform is our proprietary maps.   These maps help a patient understand   where they are, understand all of their   options through the entire 500 decisions   they're about to navigate and manage. Uh   we have hope who's trained on the map   that is your 24/7 companion and partner   through every step of the way.

>> All right. Um so how did you we're going   to see it in a second, but how did you   go about visualizing and building this   uh this this product?   >> Uh so the first thing I did was I didn't   try to build a product for what it's   worth. I started with a paper planner   for myself when I was going through   treatment and the paper product is based   on over a 100 plus peer-reviewed   research papers.

So, we're talking super   tech forward in the world of AI. So,   just bear with me. But the paper product   was sort of what I used to navigate and   manage everything that was happening.   Patients are asking for it and over the   course of maybe two years or so, we   helped a couple of thousand patients   across the country.   >> So, hang on.

So you had a paper product   you sort of got in that you you started   using and how did you distribute or how   did people find out about that?   >> Patients mostly reached out to me   actually uh my this was during   treatment. So this was probably very two   two months into treatment maybe. So I   was actually actively going through it.   So my oncologist encouraged me to get it   out into the world.

Stanford reached out   and they bought it from me resold it in   their gift shop. nonprofits would reach   out and buy it in bulk and   >> so you so you'd already built a paper   like map version patient journey uh   thing and and it was and you're already   selling that. So what did that look   like?   >> Uh we still we still support it.

Uh but   we try not selling it directly now just   cuz we want to make sure it's free for   patients.   >> But literally were you building   something on like you know were you   handwriting it? Were you uh doing a long   >> I can tell you I can tell you   >> on Canva what what what did you actually   cuz you're going through cancer at the   same time right?   >> Yes I can tell you.

So I can tell you   exact I I think I know the question   you're asking me. So this was second   cycle of chemo. I came back and I was   really really mad. So, I had chemo first   before surgery and I was mad because you   have so many appointments and the   oncologist asks you questions in these   appointments, 15-minute appointments,   right? We're talking very small amount   of time.

>> And it's questions like, "How many bouts   of diarrhea did you have 3 weeks ago?"   And I'm going,   >> I what?   >> I don't remember. And I know the problem   is I knew she was trying to grade my   symptom. I also knew that she was going   to dose adjust my chemo based on my   answer.

And it was ridiculous to me that   I'm sitting there racking my head on   something that I should be able to give   her the right information and I   couldn't.   Anyway, I came back kind of annoyed. The   same day I was in the waiting room and   this woman hands me a a hat, like a warm   hat. And this is May of 2020.   It's hot outside, but I was freezing   cold because I'd lost all my hair.

And I get this woolen hat and I Matthew   start crying because someone had   recognized a need I didn't even realize   I had.   >> Right.   >> Anyway, so the combination of the anger   and frustration of the system combined   with this like very human moment um   meant that I didn't sleep that night and   went into in design.

I started reading   self-management papers and had inesign   open and I started designing a planner   because I recognized that 90ish% of care   was happening at home by me and my   family and we didn't have a tool to   manage it.   So I went into that thing this was co by   the way I was working at a med device   company and uh the printer who was   printing our package inserts at this med   device company was one of the only ones   open.

So, I email her my Inesign file   being like, "Hey, can you please print   me a copy and she looks at it and she's   the first person who says, "Hey, Samira,   I'm happy to give you a copy. I'm just   going to give you a bunch of them. This   is going to help other people."   >> Absolutely.   >> Feel free to give it away.   >> Oh, wow.

So, that was actually something   you went to Adobe and you started just   as well you were a Mackenzie consultant   and learned something in that case. I   know there should be something useful in   Mackenzie. Um and then uh uh and you   built this thing, started printing it   and then like you said Stanford bought   bunches of copies or they buy the   product.

>> They bought planners.   >> We still have hospital systems who buy   it from us and resell it. They usually   resell it or they keep it in their uh   libraries and give it away to patients.   >> All right.   >> Um   >> the paper product helped 8,000 patients   last year.   >> Fantastic. So then you said okay well   there must be a version of this thing   use more technology.

So uh so what   happened next?   >> So what happened was uh patients would   reach out to me, my emails been in these   books, they'd give me feedback, right?   So with every print run, I would change   it and incorporate the feedback. And of   course, digital was a common ask. Um   honestly, Matthew, I spent probably 3   years trying not to build digital   because I am kind of a skeptic when it   comes to digital health and traditional   ventureback startups.

I just couldn't   wrap my head around how we would go from   where we were to a true ventureback   startup and I I couldn't reconcile that.   So I kept wanting it. What that allowed   in a really funny way was it allowed me   a year of just building a product just   for a patient. Kind of not thinking   about anything else.

And that's when we   discovered that the experience that I   had and the kind of feeling of being   lost without a map was pervasive in the   system. And patients regardless of   demographics, regardless of cancer type,   had very similar experiences. So we   started building maps. I met our now   chief medical officer, Dr. Doug Baney.

He's a former ASCO president. He and I   kind of bonded over the fact that the   map was kind of the missing piece in in   the puzzle. And without a map, you   couldn't really get navigation and   management right. So we started building   maps for breast cancer. And now fast   forward two more years, this is what we   are.

>> All right. So uh 2023 you actually said   okay this is going to be a thing.   >> Yes.   >> Um so uh and and you know did them more   to the traditional sort of digital   health venture capital thing. Build a   built a team started you know sort of   building a product. Um, so let's take a   look.

What does the paral look like?   >> All right, before I show you my screen,   let's make this uh real. Let's talk   about an actual patient who would be   going through this. Let's call her an   let's say she's in her 60s. She wakes up   one morning, finds a lump. She gets   scheduled for a mamog. She goes in for a   mamog. The radiologist   tells Anne that an really should get a   biopsy on the same day.

So Ann agrees   and gets a biopsy.   She comes home, starts unpacking what   just happened for her. She went in to   get a mammo. She ended up getting a   biopsy. The only thing she has really is   a mammo report and she's been told to   wait a week for results.   So she is naturally freaking out and she   starts googing stuff.

in one of her   search modalities, she ends up   discovering Manda.   She either downloads our app on the app   store from the app store or signs in to   our uh web app. So, I'm going to share   my screen, kind of walk you through what   an would do when she's signing up.   >> Okay,   >> so she comes in. Obviously, I'm not   using Ann. It's my email, guys.

But, you   know, you get the point.   She puts in an email and a password.   You'll see that the sign-in process is   relatively straightforward.   We ask you a couple questions.   So, Anna is here. She's getting   diagnosed. She doesn't have a diagnosis.   She's not in treatment. She's kind of   here.   And then you'll see that the product is   going to ask you a series of questions   based on what you just told us.

So Ann   has had a mamogram. She has had a   biopsy, but she doesn't have a pathology   report yet.   And that's pretty much all we really   need to give an the map that is most   relevant for her as well as locate her   in the map.   But before I tell you a little bit more   about an let's just talk about the   product.

So, I'm going to show you the   underlying layer of what we're talking   about. I'm going to zoom all the way   out.   This is the diagnosis map for breast   cancer.   Our maps look and feel like subway maps.   That's very intentional. There is a   timeline on the left that gives you a   rough estimate of what you are expecting   along a couple of the stops.

Every one of these nodes is what we call   a station. The map is oriented from top   to bottom.   All of the patients will have access to   the full map.   At the top here is you are worried about   breast cancer, i.e. you're just starting   and found a lump etc. The bottom of the   map is the actual diagnosis someone's   going to get at the end of the   diagnostic process.

So now let's come back to an is here.   She got the biopsy. at this point in   time and can click on that station. We   have given her the information that is   most relevant for that station.   We give videos in here. We write down   the questions for an as well as the   additional resources.   Our maps are reflecting guidelines.

They're reflecting clinical wisdom as   well as patient intelligence. Patient   intelligence meaning what have other   patients grappled with at this point in   time?   And and the obvious question is where   does this stuff come from?   >> So all of the content in our platform is   under the supervision of Dr.

Douglas   Blay, our chief medical officer, who I   mentioned briefly before. The content in   here is a combination of guidelines of   course, but peer-reviewed research   papers that are evidence-based. Uh all   drug information is coming from FDA   labels. All diagnostic informations are   coming from FDA labels if they exist.

Um   evidence that is under the purview of   Dr.   and about a 100 different clinicians he   leans on who are specialists in   different areas. So some examples here   is one of our clinician adviserss is Dr.   Anne Pelad who's a world-class plastic   surgeon for breast cancer. So all of our   surgery modules she'll look at it she'll   add wisdom into those modules as well.

another Go ahead.   >> And in terms of the uh in terms of the   the the the level of language um who's   doing the translation into English   English from medical English?   >> Really really good question. Everything   in the drawer here is seventh grade   reading level. And then Hope, who I'm   going to talk about in a second, Hope is   our AI partner that is trained on the   map. Hope will adjust.

So hope will   adjust if you want hope to give you more   technical language or less technical   language. If you want hope to give you   more or less information, I hope we'll   do that for you.   >> But in ter in terms of the the the first   thing, if you scroll up this first part   >> um about the about this stuff, is that   written by your team? Is that taken from   somewhere else   >> there obviously a bunch of people have   been doing levels of sort of you know   >> patients facing language over different   companies doing that over the years or   you start from scratch? Really, really   good question. We leverage a ton of AI   of course, but everything in our content   in here is human reviewed, expert   reviewed. We will source it so you'll   see exactly where that information is   coming from, Matthew. In every single   drawer because you can imagine that if   we are writing a station on biopsy   versus writing a station about sexual   dysfunction versus writing about   emotional trauma of cancer, we're   relying on different sources that are

bestin-class for each of those content   areas. So all the content in here is   being read, reviewed, edited by our   clinical team. So we have a journal   editor on our team as well who sort of   works across the board with all of our   clinical partners clinician.   >> But but but but so understanding your   mamogram report if you click on that   link, where does that take you?   >> ACS. Okay.

So this is so so this is an   ACS piece that you you've taken version   of. Okay. All right. So there so there's   a whole bunch of other stuff. Okay.   Great. Fantastic.   >> Okay. Wonderful. All right. So I I   interrupted you there but just to get   that so   >> clinically validated   >> reviewed by expert team but also you   know using outside validated sources um   and specifically for the part of the   interaction where they are on the map   right now. Okay. I interrupted a lot.

Get back to the map. Sorry   >> I'm gonna get back to an actually. So   Ann is at this point in time.   >> Sorry. Get back to an on the map. Yes,   I'd forgotten about that.   >> So over the next So let me actually say   one more thing. The most common use case   by the way for us is at this point in   time a patient like Ann will discover we   have hope.

Right? So if you look at   these questions the questions that are   most commonly asked by patients at this   point in time and if you look at this an   may have answers to some of this already   but maybe she's really focused on how   accurate are biopsies at detecting   cancer. She's come home. She's been told   she most likely has it.

And she can   click on it and it takes her to hope. As   I mentioned, hope is really grounded on   the map, right? It's grounded on where   an is at this point in time. All this   information in here. So an now goes back   and forth. What we have discovered with   um patients like an is once you get them   into hope they then end up having quite   a bit of conversation back and forth   over the course of one conversation but   also serially as an is going through   what's about to unfold over the next 2   to 4 weeks. So Matthew if you think   about the friend you were mentioning   earlier the friend you were mentioning   and what we're describing with Ann are   actually pretty similar. Ann's gonna   wait between at this point in time for   about three to four weeks before she   gets to meet an oncologist.   So she in this window of time is   leveraging hope to understand how to   prepare for an appointment that is going   to be between 8 and 15 minutes where   she's really going to decide along with   her clinician of course what's going to

happen   and in this sort of like very very uh   critical moment of time   an along with a clinician are going to   effectively get she's going to get   diagnosed with one of these types of   breast cancer   right the most common type of breast   cancer is this one invasive ductal   carcinoma hormone positive that   constitutes somewhere around 75% of all   breast cancers.

So at this point in time   let's say an clicks on that she can then   tell us she's moving to the treatment   zone. At that point in time an will get   the treatment map as well as the   survivorship map that is relevant to the   type of biology of the cancer she has.   Our treatment map like the diagnostic   map shows you everything.

It shows you   all of your treatment options regardless   of where you're getting care and   regardless of your insurance plan.   That allows an to now start to really   focus in on how to make the treatment   decisions she's going to participate in.   Over the course of this experience, how   Anne uses a platform starts to evolve as   well.

Anne started initially preparing   for appointments, understanding the   disease. Now, as an starts to get   treatment, Anne's going to have more and   more side effects.   she's going to start leaning on hope for   things like side effect management and   symptom management. So let's say an is   dealing with unfortunately some of my   chemotherapy and she has   nausea.

She can come into hope tell hope that   she's dealing with something. Hope will   detect that in this language she   mentioned a side effect or symptom. Hope   will then ask an a series of questions.   These questions are coming from PROCDCAE   which is NCI's gold standard in terms of   how to grade a symptom or side effect   for oncology specifically.

So let's say an says and you'll see that   when we say mild, moderate, severe, very   severe, you'll see we describe it   because one of the things we know from   patients that they struggle to be able   to create symptoms. They don't really   understand the difference between mild   moderate.

So, let's say she says it's   moderate.   Let's say I say yesterday   and I'm on TC, super common chemo   regimen for breast cancer.   And you see this back and forth, right?   It's super short. What we've learned and   seen in terms of feedback from patients   and families using our platform is the   fact that hope is short gives me exactly   what I asked for and speaks to me in a   way that represents what other patients   are talking to.

Hope is why patients   rely on hope quite a bit. You'll also   see hope at this point ask an if hope   can log the symptom for her.   >> Right? So I guess that this is pretty   important right because uh there have   been people trying to do symptom   trackers and that sort of AI based ones   over the years as well which um you know   haven't really spread as much as you   thought and it seems to me that symptom   tracking as a whole is I I I don't know   I mean you know you started this talking   about you know you've been asked about   your symptoms by your oncologist so I   assume that you know it does come up a   lot um and I I'm wondering the concept   of you know extracting symptom tracking   out of the conversation. I think about   we'll talk we'll talk later on about the   sort of the impact of other LLMs on on   on this but my sense is that you know   the LLMs tend to be kind of dumb and   they're not actually pulling stuff   >> into a into a format for you. So you'll   show us that in a second.   >> Yes, I will. I'm going to show you that

in a second. So let's say I say please   because by the way Matthew you're   completely right. Um, and I'll I'll   connect the dots in a minute as well and   talk about how patients are relying on   side effect and symptom management and   why what we're showing you is different   than I would say EPROS or PROS broadly   speaking have done in the past sort of   like 5 to 10 years at least.

So what   you'll see here is that it is being   tracked   by an without having to truly track it.   >> Yeah.   >> Right. And I think this is where our   platform starts to deviate from every   other platform out there. Because the   reality is for an oncologist meeting me   at 3 weeks, I oncologist need to know   about the critical symptoms.

I don't need to know about every single   hot flash you've had in the last 3   weeks. I need to know the ones that are   going to affect treatment decision-m and   dosing. And that's why the platform   starts to do a bunch of work on behalf   of an without an having to take on that   burden.   So what I just showed you represents   pretty commonly what patients and   families are doing with our platform.

Um   AN is truly representative of about 70%   of our patients. The top three use cases   are preparing for appointments, side   effect management, and understanding my   treatment options.   And what they start relying on hope for   is the actionability   based on the information. Information   alone is not what gets me there, right?   It needs to be actionable.

It's that   moment of time where I just told Hope   about a symptom and Hope logged it for   me knowing that it's going to be   relevant and an appointment coming up in   3 weeks without me having to think about   doing that. And that's kind of the um   design intent of our platform. So, let   me maybe just stop here and see if you   >> Yeah.

No, that's that's super   interesting. So when people are using it   um they start on the map and they get a   place on the map and then the map sort   of suggests them to go to hope the AI to   to talk more about stuff but it gives   them some information there and there   there are videos and there's content and   you know there's content then there's   sort of personalized AI and the AI is   tracking you as you're tracking as   you're asking it questions um which is   good when you have people use it what's   the sort of frequency of use so if you   take your your your your um patient an   and she has a biopsy and then she's   going through some level of diagnostic   journey where they figure out what the   actual thing is. We kind of skipped over   a bunch of stuff there but I assume that   isn't necessarily just there's probably   maybe it happens just in the first   meeting you say you have this but there   probably may be more meetings and more   discussions and then the next stage   obviously you go to treatment and you   have different treatment options and you   have to go back and forth and all the   rest of it. So you show all of that. How   much do people sort of go through the

map and figure out what the different   things are they they could be and how   much they just default straight to the   AI instead asking you questions which is   kind of how the LMS have trained us in   the last few years.   >> Yes. Really good question. Before I   answer it directly, let me give you one   thing that we monitor as kind of our   northstar.

>> Yeah.   >> So if you think about the 500 decisions   across diagnosis, treatment,   survivorship, I as a patient I'm making   all of these decisions. some in   partnership with my oncologist, some I'm   deferring to my oncologist, some I'm   just making myself. But of those 500,   depending on the type of cancer, there   are somewhere between 10 to 12 decisions   that are truly meaningful in terms of   the outcome of care I'm going to get.

So what we track on our side as kind of   the northstar is what we call decision   point engagement. How often are you   relying on our platform at those   critical moments of time that we know   based on your tumor type are going to be   meaningful in terms of your overall   outcomes? That's what we call decision   point engagement.

Our baseline across   tumor types is 80%.   I say that only to say that traditional   consumer metrics such as Dao, Ma, wow,   whatever, whichever one you want to pick   is really not super meaningful when you   think about ancology cuz the reality is   I may come in every single day but not   engage at the moment of time that is   critical or I may engage sporadically   but I'm really engaging at the moment of   time that is meaningful.

So we track the   latter. So having said that, what we've   seen is based on the type of cancer, our   engagement baselines are mimicking   clinical encounters.   So early stage baselines look and feel   different than metastatic. Metastatic   populations are active 12 months out.   Early stage super active period for a   couple of months and then a long tail.

That's pretty much what we are seeing in   our platform.   >> Interesting. So the other sort of   question to ask is is is how people are   using it in conjunction with their   oncologists. Um so I would expect that   there are some oncologists who think   this is fantastic. I have an engaged   patient who's doing all this stuff.

And   there are others who are going oh this   person is starting to you know be a bit   tricky and question my judgment. We   we've gone back and forth over the   years. There've got a lot of very   activist patients. I'll talk about sort   of you from Jill Friedman and E patient   Dave and all the way you know all the   way through and obviously you yourself   um who are trying to figure out what is   the way to manage their experience using   technology um then you've got obviously   very activist online patient groups and   etc etc etc and it's always been my   impression that the medical industrial   complex has kind of looked at this and   gone well you know individual doctors   say hey this is great to have an engaged   patient but the the systems haven't   really figured out how to manage that   how to manage this this level of patient   activity which obviously is very   strongly cancer properly. What what's   your sense of how people are using it   with their actual clinical with their   clinicians and with the the   organizations they're going to   >> let me answer what we're seeing as a   baseline and let me also kind of address

the maybe the online question of how the   clinicians are responding to it.   >> Perfect. Yeah, sure.   >> So how the patients are using it is a   lot of times patients are using it in   between appointments, right? Right. So,   you go into this appointment, 8 to 15   minutes, you've been given all this   information.

You're sitting there going   like, "What just happened? I don't   understand." You come in, Matthew, the   questions we see in our platform are   heartbreaking.   We have we have patients asking hope   things like, "Is metastatic disease   curable?   We have, of course, we have the super   activated patient who is like all over   the biomarkers and like super down the   rabbit hole in terms of like this is   exactly what my foundation medicine test   report says, blah blah blah.

" Of course   you have that. But the ones that really   break my heart are the former. It's the   ones where you have we really haven't   done basics.   If you as a patient are asking hope   whether meticide disease is curable   I just   you didn't get the you didn't receive   whatever information you should have   received in the   >> correct or or in in fairness to an   oncologist let's just let's just be very   generous here.

You got the information,   but it was too much.   >> It was too much to be given to you in a   15-minute appointment. In a 15-minute   appointment where you're told you have   cancer, you're not listening to just   about anything else.   >> Yeah.   >> So, I think so. The reason I say that is   we're seeing kind of this massive range.   The other thing we are seeing is a   patient who starts out at what you would   describe as relatively low health   literacy over the course of a couple of   weeks and months, that activation goes   straight up. And I think this is where   you start differentiating amongst   oncology patients and other patients.   Oncology patients and our experience and   there's and there's data on this. Um   it's called patient activation measure.   You'll see it's a straight line up in   oncology.   And the reason it's a straight line up   is it's not just a oneand done, right?   I'm not going to the system and bouncing   out. I'm in the system for months,   sometimes years on end. And over time,   you as a patient begin to realize that   there are certain things I can trust the   system for. And then there are certain   things that I really have to cross   check.

And when you start realizing that or you   or someone in your family is realizing   that, you start changing your behavior   sometimes without recognizing you're   changing them. I'll give you another   example. We have patients who track   symptoms and side effects, right? We   know cognitive we know we know toxic   treatments cause cognitive um issues.

So   patients are recognizing they're dealing   with chemobrain or brain fog etc. and   they're building coping mechanisms to   compensate   for the side effects and symptoms. So   we're so far away from symptom tracking   as kind of like this like baseline we   believe gold standard in healthcare   where the reality is on the patient side   of course you need to track it that's   like minimum the reality is you need to   still live life while grappling with the   side effects and symptoms and that's   where the platform really starts to   support the patient. So that's on the   patient side. Now let's come back to the   oncologist side. We when we went out to   build this my biggest fear I don't know   if it's fear but maybe fear was   oncologist would reject us. We kind of   have this like aversion reaction being   like oh my god you're informing the   patient you're engaging the patient I   don't want to spend more time. What we   have seen is on the oncologist side   burnout is real. We have a huge shortage

of oncologists   and the time spent with a patient is   shrinking.   I think the the numbers I'm hearing are   8 minutes of an appointment. 8 minutes   for an oncology appointment. That is   ludicrous.   But the reality is we can't really   extend that because of the way the   system is built. So the stance that   Manta has taken that is so far really   appreciated by our clinical community is   we recognize that you have an 8minute   appointment and our tool will help you   as a patient to identify the three most   critical things you need to achieve in   that appointment. It's not about giving   you 18 questions to ask your doc. It's   about helping you identify the most   critical one you have to address in this   appointment. And that's kind of the   coaching layer that we've added within   hope. And that is really really   appreciated on the clinician side. And   that's one of the reasons why six health   systems are starting to refer patients   to us.   >> All right. Well, let's uh talk talk a   little bit more about that and then   we'll meander into manticare as as a

business. Manticare is a business. So   when you say health systems are   referring patients to you, what does   that actually look like? What's the sort   of uh systematic way that that I come   in, I have, you know, I found a lump, I   end up getting it referred, I get a   biopsy, I end up at Stanford or UCSF or,   you know, Manos wherever I end up, what   happens next?   >> So depending on the system, depending   what the clinical workflow is, because   if you look at lung, breast, your   workflows are different. So what we do   is we first understand their workflow.   We then will identify which part of the   workflow and which specific individuals   in that workflow are going to be   referring the patient to mentor. Very   very often it's someone in the role of a   patient intake coordinator or someone   who is helping that patient get   established for care at that system or   setting cuz a referral comes in someone   is calling that patient being like you   need to meet Dr. blah blah blah on blah   date. That's the first point of entry   for the mant platform. So that patient

entity coordinator is giving this   patient a quick overview of mant saying   hey your doctor recommends you go in and   use this tool to um understand the   disease and what's going to happen.   That's the first point. The second point   is if a system has navigation like true   traditional traditional two years of   navigation services a navigator per se   that navigator is also given physical   material and collateral they can hand   the patient as well.

So there are   multiple points where you can introduce   a platform into the   into the patient based on your workflow.   >> And then uh so two two two different   questions. One is how many of the   patients getting to mount are coming via   a system and how many of them are just   founding some other way you using it   kind of irrespective of that and then   secondly how are you working with these   systems? I mean you know   that you are yet another digital health   solution coming into them.

You get   introduced by oncologists you get   introduced by patients. What's how have   you been put selling to them?   >> Really good question. Um right now the   vast majority of patients actually find   us directly   >> they how are they doing that?   >> Search usually search   >> I need help with cat cancer and Google.   >> Yep.

>> Mhm. the vast majority are our physician   physician health system partnerships   have really kicked in in Q4. So it's a   small percentage of patients today but   we do fully expect that that number will   grow over time and so that's kind of   current state future state. In terms of   how um systems find us I would say it's   about 50/50.

50% we have found and 50%   reach out to us. So we have a decent   amount of inbound usually oncologist.   Uh so we're really not really in the   administrative layer because the   platform is free for the patient and   it's free for the clinicians and   clinical teams to give it to their   patients. So we're not really charging   them.

So we kind of bypass some of your   tra traditional   sales model. Uh what has been really   effective for us is we tend to publish a   lot of data. I'm a scientist at heart   and that basically and Dr. Blay is of   course a scientist himself. So we both   believe in generating evidence to   demonstrate actual impact of the   platform in the world.

So we show up to   a lot of the congresses where   oncologists are present. So very very   often they'll find us, meet us there,   get excited, pull us into their clinic.   >> And is there any integration with their   BMRs? I mean at the moment or is this   basically a complete separate tool and   they're just getting symptom information   and helping the patients with that?   >> Uh right now no integration.

Uh we don't   require it but of course as you can   imagine we will do that.   >> But at some at some point, you know, you   might get asked about it, but then   that's   >> we get asked about it all the time. That   takes you down another rabbit hole which   may or may not be a good one to go down.   >> Correct.

Correct. And what you just said   is is spot on. Right. We get asked about   it all the time. We are being pulled by   at least two of our partners into doing   integrations right now. So we're smack   in the middle of like exploring that.   But as you can imagine that is a not a   short order.   >> Yeah. And I think so. And you're all I   mean to be fair you said you mentioned   it you currently being you are in with   sex systems.

Um does being in mean that   you're in with the oncologists uh or   almost does the administration know   about you as well?   >> It depends on the system.   >> Okay. So there there's a certain amount   of being in right and how central you   are to to correct to a system. So that's   you know I think that's a strategic   piece.

Your goal obviously is to get in   in in with more and more patients and   there are obviously different ways to   get patients on this. um what have you   done at the dentist? If you've done   anything, it would kind of besides   yourself with sort of um some of the   patient advocates, some of the patient   advocacy groups.   >> So, we partner with over 40 plus   nonprofits across the country.

And by   the way, regardless of partnership   status, we if we are aware of a   nonprofit, the services they offer, the   community, we will flag it in our   system. So it will show up in the map as   well as in hope conversations if it's   pertinent to the conversation happening   because we really believe that we alone   can't solve all the problems and if an   organization is doing a good job and in   supporting the patient in ways we can't   support them we will absolutely amplify   it. Um if you are a partner of ours what   happens is they can tell us when they   have a new service launching etc and   we'll communicate that with our   community and vice versa. So our   partners will communicate uh Manta's   existence within their communities too.   So that's on the nonprofit side.   >> Okay. And then uh and dumb question, but   how many how many different journeys   have you done? You've done obviously a   bunch in breast cancer and you mentioned   lung   >> breast and lung is where we're playing   right now in breast cancer. We have four   distinct maps that provides over 96 97%

coverage of all breast cancer. There are   a couple of rare cancers within the   breast space that we haven't gotten a   full map on yet.   >> And in lung cancer, we're primarily   doing metastatic non small cell lung   cancer right now.   >> And then how many   there's a lot of cancer.   >> What what share of all cancer have you   managing? So we managed so far.

>> Um right now we're managing about   30-ish% of all cancer.   >> Okay. So you have a way to go on that   way in terms of you know we mentioned   the issue of the issue of integration   with takes up time but a small startup   you know building out more maps gets you   to more more people is probably   something else that you're focusing on I   assume where where's the next one you go   to I don't know what the next big   categories are   >> we're going to finish up lung then   prostate then colurectal cancer that'll   get us to about 75ish% of all cancers   then multiple myoma that'll get us north   of 80 and then you have a long tail of   >> so you you have a map for where to go a   long long tail of stuff afterwards.   Okay, fantastic. Um, let's talk let's uh   that's fantastic. So, and then how many   patients have used the service so far?   So digital, so not including paper, uh   digital platform, the one I showed you   guys, we put out in the community maybe   mid last year. We have north of 3,000   patients in there right now. Okay,   >> we're adding close brand new. We're   babies. We're adding about a thousand

patients a month right now.   >> Our goal is to be at about 15,000 by the   end of the year.   >> Okay. Um so let's talk about this. You   raised uh then last year around 5   million in seed funding um from PEVC and   some others. uh you'd mentioned before   well I not sure this was going to be a   venture capital based company but now it   is right so the obvious question is who   is going to pay for this who's free for   patients and we'll say free for systems   um I assume there's another big   interested party in the whole onology   space who might be interested in paying   for this but you tell me who is who who   who who is paying for this and what's   the business model of the company   >> okay let's start with uh let's start   with the ecosystem broadly and then come   into who we've started with so ecosystem   broadly roughly three pools of money   health system, pharma companies, life   science companies, diagnostic companies,   life sciences broadly. And then peers,   uh, health system, we're not really   charging them today. I think there may   be a play there. Not yet. So that one we   just put aside.   >> Well, I assume if the integration goes   down the path and it starts becoming   something that they're reliable, maybe.

>> Exactly right. That's exactly right. And   then on the peer side, life sciences   side, we pick life sciences. And I'll   talk about that in a minute to start. So   let's talk about the life sciences side.   If you think about uh if you think about   the baseline, the relationship between a   patient and a pharma company today I   would argue is pretty broken   and the pharma companies I think are   suffering because of it.

So let's talk   about what I mean by that. A pharma   company today launching a drug in   oncology is becoming more and more   precise. What I mean by that is let's   say you're doing it in metastatic breast   cancer second line setting. It's a   targeted therapy the therapy meaning   it's going after a specific biioarker   meaning that the patient has to have   done next generation sequencing kind of   right now.

Your total patient population   that will be eligible for that drug is   roughly 5,000 patients.   So you're looking at a pretty small   population that could benefit from this.   But the   >> stop you doesn't stop you running   commercials during the football game to   to annoy the crap out of me by the way.   >> Precisely.

No, no, but but that that I   think is part of the point though,   Matthew. The tools they have at their   disposal today are television ads,   digital banner ads, HCP marketing, but   HCPs are burnt out. They have no rep   rules, etc., etc.   And that's about it for 5,000 patients,   which is just absurd. And that's   effectively where Manta shows up.

We   provide an alternative because actually   that was one more thing I should have   said prior to me saying that. The other   thing they do is patient support   programs. In oncology, they do put   together these patient support programs,   roughly spending something on the order   of 20 million, 30 million bucks.

Patient   support programs, only 40% of patients   are even aware they exist.   And the utilization of a program that I   would argue could actually help me,   could cover my c-ay for a bit, could   help me get to a nurse navigator, etc.,   is under 3%.   That that's just that that's ridiculous   as an industry standard.

And that's why   Manta comes in. We're providing the   alternative to pharma companies to be   able to really support an in a   meaningful way. So if you think about   going back to an right 500 decisions   that I'm grappling with that specific   pharma company launching that specific   drug needs to meet an at roughly five   moments   and what our platform does is it allows   them to show up at those five moments in   a way that provides an with more   education with amplification of patient   support programs that they've already   invested in which can give her copy   assistance etc. So it allows them to   show up in a different way that is   actually in Anne's best interest. Now   this only works because our platform   will show an all of her options always.   That's the only reason this works. If   you if that was not true, then this   model would not work. But because we are   showing an all of her options always,   we're able to partner with pharma   companies in a way that actually

benefits her.   >> Okay. Do you uh and how far down the   path with different farmer companies are   you at the moment? Do you have someone   already sponsoring the system?   >> We do. So we're working with three of   the top 15 pharma companies today.   Novartis and Gilead are the ones that   are public and we have six more active   discussions in pipeline.

So pharma has   been super super receptive to this model   actually.   >> Yeah. No, I mean I mean you know because   in the end it's a you know I don't know   what they're paying you but it's a   trivial amount of money compared to what   what else they're doing in this   marketing. as he said we kind of were   joking before that their current   marketing is incredibly inaccurate and   annoying by the way might get banned   which well we we heard that we heard   that's the one sensible thing that we   heard from the current administration   about an RFK Junior and he hasn't   actually mentioned it again which is   pretty annoying because he's mentioned   he's done a lot of other really bad   stuff but we'll ignore that okay um   fantastic so so brilliant so you've been   doing the company's been doing this uh   as a company you said about two years   now Um, you raised money. How how many   people are you now? Give you a sense of   the scale of the company now. You raised   a bit of money last year.   >> So, we raised in 24. We just announced   it last year. It's been a minute.   >> So, the money was hiding.   >> No, no, you're right. You're right. We   just we just didn't tell the world we   raised money. Okay. Uh, we were not   trying to tell the world. We just, you

know, didn't have our like act together   on that side of the house. Um,   >> okay. I can, if you want, if you want to   buy some PR advice, I can help that   separately. But anyway, done. But but   but uh but but but keep going. So, you   have uh   So, how   >> how many how many people are you now?   So, you mentioned medical director and   some of the people.

>> We're close to 12 people full-time and   then we have a bunch of fractional   people supporting us. Um the fractional   people supporting us all in we're   probably around 18 people so far.   >> And then and then you mentioned a whole   bunch of people   >> of the 18 by the way that's not   including clinical people.

The 18 does   not include clinical then you have over   100 plus clinician advisors actually   because we need to rely on them for very   specific things. So that's 100 plus um   side of the house. Of the 18, by the   way, there are five of us who are   survivors. So cancer is personal not   just to me, it's personal to pretty much   everybody in this company.

And um I   think that's one of the reasons why um   we're able to do what we're doing.   >> Fantastic. And then what do you hope   will happen over the next uh year or two   for Mandicare? So you know, if you're um   how are you hoping to grow the the uh   the understanding? I mean, you're   killing a thousand patients a month from   from people just random searching.

What   how how do we get this to I don't know   how many millions of patients need this,   but you know, certainly hundreds and   hundreds of thousands. So, how are you   hoping to grow? What's what's the goal   for for that level of growth? And then I   have a one tricky question for you after   this, but just tell me that   >> I would expect nothing less than tricky   from you. I know.

Um,   >> so let's talk about the next two years.   Uh, the total number of patients by the   way in the US every single year is about   2 million. So if we were at millions of   patients, well we'd be crushing it in   life. Um for the next sort of two years,   our goal is to get to about 80% of all   cancer coverage in terms of the map.

So   prostate cancer, colctal multiple myoma.   >> So us making sure we do that is sort of   mission critical. Um looking at anywhere   between 50 to 75,000 patients in the   platform next year,   >> right? So fairly dramatic growth from   this year onwards.   >> Okay. So hundreds of thousands patients   in the not too distant future is   something that that you know sounds   realistic to you but yes 50,000 in the   next couple years. Great. All right.

So   my last tricky question I ask this about   everybody who has any kind of product   especially one that has a big AI   component as yours does is uh you may   have heard there are these other   organizations that are building data   centers and running AI models and a lot   of people are using them right so 30 40   million people are using some kind of   AI.

I myself for my own health issues   I've been using a lot of uh claude and   open AI and uh Gemini we've been used   one called insightful med which is a   specifically around uh around ring   fences pubmed um that seems to me to be   your biggest competition right so if I   understood how Medicare works and I have   a journey and I does symptom checking   that's that's great but in but uh most   people going well I know about church   HBT let me just ask   And how different is it? So   what do you think your eventual   relationship ends up being with those   big LMS? I mean are they are they just a   competition? Do you end up working with   them? Do you come part of them? What h   how do you how do you think this plays   out?   >> Really really good question. Um so one   we we use uh Antropics model in our back   end right. So I actually believe that   some of the competition you're talking   about is kind of an enablement layer.   >> Yep.   >> Right. So the general element tools   depending on which one you're you're

relying on I I do think is enablement   and that I think remains true for a   while. I think oncology is different and   the reason I say oncology is different   than general health is because patients   are looking for what other patients have   gone through. That is part and parcel of   my experience when I am searching both   for information for support how to   manage things like how did you tell your   husband about vaginal dryness right so   you really are looking for this like   very real life experience Seth that I   think is hard to find in general um and   that's kind of where mant starts to   really differentiate that and then   clinical wisdom the 100 plus clinicians   I'm talking about their wisdom is being   reflected in our platform so those are   the two things that start to   differentiate us from the genlm the   grounding in the map I think is crucial   because you saw right like we went from   a patient who told we didn't have any   medical information on you no record on   you and we were able to kind of get you

to exactly what you needed within a   matter of minutes and I think with GNLM   you could do that I think it's a much   taller order because in oncology the   level of specificity Matthew has gotten   so precise so it's the Second reason.   Third reason is trust. Trust is a big   big big part of this whole thing.

And   with oncology   trust comes in not just in terms of   privacy security which is kind of   absolutely necessary. It also comes in   on am I being seen and represented.   And we have done a lot of work on hopes   voice and tone to represent the patient   voice cuz the way patients talk to each   other is just different than if you were   talking to a jbdesque model.

>> Yeah, I think I mean that's that's   right. It it's still kind of there's the   publicity problem, right, which is which   is which which you're going to people   are going to know about those. And I   think that's this is something that   people across the board where it's   unclear as to how much the sort of   what gets used and what it gets used for   and whether it gets used in specialty   LLMs kind of like yours or whether it   gets you know which probably are using   some of the those deadline tools but   have been tuned compared to compared to   just going to the big ones and I think   we're going to figure that out the next   few years as to what happens as as their   AGI gets to us that their G that the AGI   guy comes or gets smarter or whatever   and you know where specialists like you   are building more and more stuff out   we're going to find out but uh you know   it's it's it's obviously the the   question and hopefully the combination   serves patients better which is what   we're trying to do fantastic well we'll   leave it there I've been talking with   Samira Dwani she's the CEO of mount

cares who had a good explanation of what   they do uh in mapping and cancer Samira   thanks for your time great to meet you   >> thank you so much for having me Matthew