Title: Sofia Noori, Nema Health
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fC02ogP6RcQ
Language: en
Duration: 41:42
Upload Date: Feb 13, 2026

Transcription:


[music]   Matthew Hall, THTV Spotlight here.   Delighted to be on with somebody who   should have been on THTV a long, long   time ago, but it's taken me, I don't   know, 10 years to get her on. This is   Dr. Safia Nori. She is a Yale trained   psychiatrist uh and the CEO of Nema   Health.

 And a lot of full disclosures   here. Number one is that Sophia worked   at Health 2.0 while she was a UCSF   medical student. and uh did lots of   different things there but but in her in   her life but uh then went to Yale um   residency in psychiatry and uh then then   among other things became a flare   capital fellow got interested in   business ran various conferences at Yale   I know in in health tech and uh then   started their own psych psychiatry   company Nema health um and now the full   go I am a teeny teeny investor in ne   health and I think the idea is fantastic   so uh so we're going to start with what   the hell Nema is and what does you're   going to show us a bit about it and then   we're going to talk about some of the   results you have which are sneak you   know TLDDR absolutely fantastic um and   we're going to talk about you know the   the how mental health in particular   treatment for PTSD is is developing but   let's start with the uh the the bottom   line uh the stock sorry start with the

  uh the basics um NEMA is a company which   is dealing with PTSD predominantly at   the moment in women who've who've had   some kind of violence in their life. Is   that still correct or have you gone a   bit broader now?   >> Great question, Matthew. So, um so we   actually see anybody of all um from all   walks of life who have trauma symptoms.

  Um and you know, most people who are   coming with trauma symptoms typically   have some form of PTSD. Sometimes we see   folks with um symptoms um before they   actually develop into PTSD. So, they   have acute stress disorder. Um, so yeah,   but if if folks have a trauma and stress   related like condition or problem, we'll   see them.

 And then we see folks of any   type of like trauma, any um any numbers   of traumas too. And um so that includes,   you know, unfortunately a lot of women   are twice as likely to develop PTSD as   men. So that's why we do see lots of   women, but we also treat first   responders, healthcare workers, we see   workers comp cases, and so like a just   the the whole gamut.

  >> Okay. Okay. So, it's across the board,   but it happens to be you're doing what   the population is population is. Um, so   for people who aren't too aware, we hear   a lot about PTSD mostly in the context   of the military and people coming back   from Iraq with with the you know, and   going back to the World War One being   like shell shock, but what what is it?   >> Well, just describe what the symptoms   like for people.

  >> Yeah. So, and like to your point,   Matthew, I think a lot of people when   they think about PTSD, the first thing   they think of is a combat veteran who   like came back from war, right? and that   that is um that is a you know a flavor   of PTSD that we do see. Um but of but   oftentimes people don't realize that   actually trauma is really common   unfortunately like for Americans.

 Over   80% of people have suffered what we   think of as a clinical traumatic you   know event um which is exposure to   life-threatening injury or illness or   witnessing it happen to someone. So it   could be like you know a sudden death of   someone that you just didn't see coming.   It can be domestic violence or rape.

 It   can also be mass shootings, right? Like   exposure to gun violence and things like   that. Um, and it could be something   suddenly happening to you that you never   thought would happen, like you get a   sudden diagnosis of something   life-threatening. And so it's super   variable. Now, about one in 10 people   will go on to develop a trauma related   condition like PTSD, right, which is the   most common one.

 Um, and uh, and uh,   what what people I think don't realize   is that some traumas are more likely to   cause PTSD. So the traumas that are most   likely to cause PTSD are rape and   domestic violence. Um and combat trauma   is actually third most likely. And so   actually there are more cases of PTSD in   civilians than there are in veterans.

 So   about 85% of all cases of PTSD are   actually in civilians. Um another piece   that people don't realize about PTSD is   that it's actually treatable. Because I   think like the prevail prevailing sort   of narrative or like how we think about   it is that like trauma is kind of a   scarlet letter.

 And um you know if you   develop PTSD you are like kind of   relegated to have these symptoms for the   rest of your life and it's like a   >> could you could I interrupt you what are   the kind of symptoms and what's the kind   of impact on people's lives from being   this   >> so after someone um after someone is   experiences a trauma almost everyone   actually has some symptoms of   post-traumatic stress right they're a   little shaky um they are thinking about   the trauma over and over and over again   right and they're worried it might   happen again or they're thinking about   what they could have done to like   prevent it, right? For some folks, that   just doesn't go away. So, they develop   four categories of symptoms after the   trauma that are just persistent for more   than a month. And those include, you   know, intrusive symptoms. So, you know,   you're washing the dishes and then you   start thinking about this accident or   you know what unfortunately what   happened to you in childhood with your   parents or whatever it is, it just keeps   popping back up and coming back up,   right? And what happens is people try to   avoid what we call triggers, right? like

  people, places, things that might remind   them of the trauma or make them feel   like they're going through it again. So,   their life gets smaller and smaller.   They're starting to socially isolate.   They avoid things that they might have   like found, you know, joy in before,   right? And then what also happens is   that part of this talk track that's   happening in their mind is they're   trying to figure out why they're trying   to make sense of why the trauma happened   to them, right? So, they often are   thinking like, you know, if I just done   this, if I was if I was a better kid, I   wouldn't have been beat, right? Or if I   had just not drank that last drink at   the bar, then this wouldn't have   happened to me, right? Um, so they're   constantly feeling shame, guilt,   self-lame, too. And they're trying to   figure out why this happened to them.   And we call that negative cognitions and   mood. Um, and the the last category of   symptoms is what we call hypervigilance   or hyperarousal. So they're constantly   thinking about safety in one way, shape

  or form, right? And um they're jumpy,   tense, easily startled, more anxious. Um   they this is where people get are just   more irritable, right? Because they   can't fully concentrate on any one thing   because they're thinking more deeply   about their safety than just like   attending to a conversation.

 And that's   when people start to feel like they've   literally changed. Their personalities   have changed. They're um it's easy to   anger. um they're they almost look like   they have ADHD, right? Um and they start   to, you know, part of avoidance too is   is also numbing yourselves. So that's   where people start to drink or use   substances or cut and self harm and   things like that because they're trying   to essentially numb themselves out um so   that they don't have to feel their   distress.

  So these become pretty I mean I can   imagine for a lot of people this become   very debilitating limits your social   life your work life you know probably   your relationships obviously self harm   drinking you know substance abuse all   all the above a lot a lot of bad things   result from it and as you as you were   hinting at it's kind of one of those   things we go well you know trauma it   can't can't be avoided we've heard some   stuff about about about long people with   long-term PTSD there's there's some   stuff going on about well maybe you uh   psilocybin or magic mushrooms or   whatever. We got these potential   hallucins that might might work or   whatever. But you have a you have a uh   you have a particular way of treating it   called cognitive processing therapy   which sounds like cognitive behavioral   therapy which probably people know from   depression but it's different. Um I   would love to hear about you know coming   from your clinical background how did   you come across this effective way and   how did you decide okay we can scale   this by building a company around it.   Tell me tell me about the treatment and

  uh yeah why your car came up with this.   >> Happy to happy to share some of that.   And you know the essentially the like   idea for starting a a clinic that was   was like focused on trauma um came to my   co-founder Isabelle and I like when we   were in residency because in residency   you you have a really interesting   vantage point because you get to rotate   through so many different settings and   you also see how uh conditions are   treated differently in different   settings but you also get to see the gap   between what happens in practice and   what the practice guidelines actually   say. Right? And for for me what I was   seeing is that the biggest gap between   what actually happens and what's   supposed to happen in the treatment   guidelines was with PTSD. Um and I So   typically what happens when someone has   PTSD in pretty much like any setting   like um in you know the community   clinics even like high-end like   concierge clinics and things like that   is that you know folks come in with PTSD   they're given meds and they're given   like outpatient talk therapy right where

  they see someone once a week the person   asks them how like their week is going   and like supports them through whatever   it is that they're going through. Um and   that's actually not a treatment for   PTSD. So supportive therapy is actually   literally not in any of the practice   guidelines.

 What's actually supposed to   happen for PTSD is you're supposed to   get a specific type of therapy that's   structured and designed for PTSD and for   trauma, right? And one uh there's two   first-line treatments for PTSD. They're   cognitive processing therapy and   prolonged exposure. We do both, but we   start with CPT first.

 And the reason why   is because it's not an exposure therapy.   So, a lot of people get freaked out by   trauma therapy because they think it's   going to be ret-raumatizing. It's   actually like they're they're actually,   you know, wor they're already worried   about distress. They're already avoiding   things, right? And now you're telling   them that they're going to go through   therapy where they have to talk about   their trauma, right? And they have to do   it once a week.

 You rip open the   band-aid and you slap it back on and you   live through the week. So essentially   the way that we designed our model at   NEMA was around like one thesis which is   you know what is how can we design like   outstanding the care that you want your   mom or your sibling to have but also   make sure that people can actually do it   right because it's actually really   important that people complete the   treatment.

 So, we designed our model   around cognitive processing therapy in   particular um because not only does it   have like some of the strongest evidence   in the literature, but it is not an   exposure therapy. So, people talk about   the impact of their trauma, but they do   not have to listen to a recording of   their trauma over and over again until   they feel better, which is what happens   in prolonged exposure, right? Um and so   it's it's it actually has higher   engagement and adherence rates.

 Um the   other piece that we do differently in   our treatment is we do the therapy three   times a week. So we do it more often   because there's also data in the   literature that shows that intensive   therapy um actually performs better than   if you do it once a week. So just like   meds where dose matters, dose and   frequency actually also matter for   therapy.

 And um people are much less   likely to drop out if they do the   therapy three times per week. And   because of that they have a better   outcome.   >> Right? So let's hold on the outcomes   because we have a you have some   published work about that which we'll   get to. But so what does this what's the   experience like and I know you can you   can show us perhaps a little bit here.

  Um so if I'm a patient and I come come   to NEA and I and I you know I want to   get on boarded clearly I have therapy   which probably is it's it's over over   teleah health I think for for it is so   it's tellah health remote therapy people   probably familiar with that but it's   obviously it's intense it's much more   frequent these hourlong sessions too how   long that's   >> great question so yes so every piece of   it is really intentionally designed it's   tella health because also there's   evidence that tellaalth is more patable   to people who need to do trauma therapy.   They're actually more likely to stick   with it if it's tellahalth in some of   the studies. And then the sessions are   generally about 50 minutes, so 50. And   they require practice assignments. So   you actually have to practice the skills   that you're learning in the therapy   every day. And so they get assigned   seven worksheets after each therapy   session to complete before they go to   the next therapy session.   >> Okay? So there is therapy, but not just   therapy. There's a lot of homework. So   if I'm going three times a week, the   next day I've got to do that much of

  homework before I come back to the next   session basically.   >> Exactly. Exactly. And so the the   treatment um people often like say like,   "Oh, is the treatment different if I,   you know, survive sexual assault versus   like child abuse versus something else?"   The treatment works if you have PTSD   symptoms, right? Um but what is   different is how we support every person   through it because everyone has such a   different like life history and like   different needs, right? So before people   actually even do the trauma therapy with   us, they go through what we call an   evaluation phase where we need to   inventory their their their needs like   their social determinance of health,   their um uh suicidality also any threats   to them because a lot of our patients   are being stalked or are in legal   situations and things like that. So   there's a lot of like case management,   care coordination, safety planning and   we also provide peer support. We'll do   family sessions with folks um to to you   know enlist their family to support   them. There's a lot of like scaffolding

  that happens, but the core intervention   does not change regardless of how many   traumas somebody has, how long it's been   since the trauma. Um uh and and and   actually people with more severe   symptoms actually do better in the   therapy. So even the the severity does   not actually influence the the actual   treatment itself.

  Fantastic. Um, so can you show me what   it's like? Um, perhaps   >> Yeah, I can show you what it's like.   >> Share your screen and show us what the   uh the the experience of I mean I don't   know if you have the clinician or the   view or the uh the patient view.   >> Yeah. Yeah, I have um the clinician view   up, but it's it's pretty similar to the   patient view.

 Um and I'm going to show   what some of the assignments look like.   We do have a patient dashboard where   there's also like we we literally graph   people's symptoms over time um um to   make sure that we're moving the dial on   what's like most what's most top of mind   for them um when they come in. So each   session is really tailored to to their   needs.

 But I'll show you how because a   lot of people ask us like well if it's a   protocol of therapy it must be super   impersonal and that's just not true. um   you're learning skills, but you apply   them to your life with your therapist,   right? And so um every time someone   comes in um uh they're learning a new   skill and they put them all together so   that they can change the way they think   about themselves, right? And so one of   the one of the key core issues with PTSD   is that people believe really scary   thoughts about why the trauma happened   to them, right? That may or may not be   true, but they can't shake them. And if   I told you know you Matthew that like   you you know that's that's not your   fault. You shouldn't think that way. You   wouldn't necessarily believe it, right?   It doesn't change anything if I say it.   So what we do in trauma therapy is we   have to help teach people how to   understand what they believe and then   help them change their own mindset so   that they are looking at themselves in a   more balanced way too. And so the way

  that we do this is by adding one skill a   session, right? having them practice it   and then we put all of the skills   together about halfway through. So the   first thing that we do is we help folks   make what we call a stuck point log. So   these are all the scary thoughts that   swim in their heads sometimes like in at   late at night whatever right that keep   them from moving forward in life and   they can be things like I'm bad right it   h it's my fault this happened to me   right if I did xyz it wouldn't have   happened or whatever it is right so   we'll literally make a list of all of it   get it out of their head onto paper and   then we teach we slowly teach them you   know a concept and skill a day um so   that they start to change the way they   think about themselves. So um one you   know this this is like in session four   like one of the things that we teach   people is just responsibility like what   is responsibility right um because a lot   of people think that if they feel guilty   it's their fault and so we actually then   have to deconstruct that so what does it

  mean to be at fault for something right   and we just like place that concept   there right and so that it percolates   for them then we start to um add in some   some other skills so um this is what we   call an exploring questions assignment.   So, you know, after somebody is able to   identify what their stuck point is,   which might be like, you know, if I had   hadn't had that last drink or if I   hadn't worn that skirt, this wouldn't   have happened to me or whatever it is,   right? We gently start to ask them,   okay, what's the evidence that this may   be true? Like, if you were a lawyer   arguing in court, right, that if you   wore this skirt, this, you know, if you   hadn't worn that skirt, this wouldn't   have happened. Tell me what is the   evidence that you know that um against   the idea that this is true. Right? Then   we ask them things like okay what are   you not including in the stuck point you   know sometimes what we hear is well   actually that person was holding a gun   right and their stuck point was you know   if I had fought harder this wouldn't   have happened to me or something like   that right so they miss key parts of it

  and so we have to help them dig a little   bit um and we're more of a coach right   than someone who is doing the excavation   for them they have to do the excavation   themselves we teach them and coach them   in a safe way how to do it. So, they   practice this, you know, over and over   again, right, until they get the hang of   it and then we start to add and layer in   um um the skills so that they and then   put it all together about halfway   through the therapy.

 Are they are they   uh so they're doing this on their own   and then bringing it back and going   through it with their therapist that   they're kind of revising, you know,   assessing the homework they've done and   talking about it and and being kind of   coached through that.   >> Yeah, exactly. So, the therapist is um   is essentially tailoring every session   to what's coming up most for them.

 So,   you know, if they're being more   distressed because they think it's their   fault, right? And we're going to we're   going to start with those thoughts and   then use the skills to and apply them to   those thoughts so we make some some   change like in how they feel because   their thoughts and emotions are   connected, right? And then um we'll   continue to go through every single   scary thought that they have about   themselves um until there's essentially   no more left or until they can do the   rest of them on their own.   >> Okay. Now the therapists are these uh   licensed psychologists, social workers,   psychiatrists.   >> They're licensed psychiatrists,   psychologists and um and social masters   level like therapists.   >> Okay. Fantastic. And then when you come   to the you mentioned putting it all   together and this is probably an example   of that. Um   this is how long you you're doing this   for four weeks, three times a week plus   homework. So basically every other day   of a you know in the every other day for

  for a month um more or less and then uh   that's the that's the therapy session.   So a lot of intense time and then   >> when do you get to this point? Is this   sort of two weeks in through   >> this is about two weeks in. Yeah. So um   so about the the first half is learning   the skills in in like in in sequence,   right? And then the second half is   putting them all together so you   actually do change the way you feel.

 Um,   and it's almost like, you know, like   when I go to the gym, um, like gym   classes, they, you know, they teach you   each motion of like an exercise until   you can put it all together like in into   like into the actual, um, like complex.   And that's exactly what we do here,   right? So, so generally we teach like   the first skill is this ABC one, which   is can you just identify the scary   thought, right? and how it makes you   feel because some people are so numb to   how they feel.

 They literally cannot   connect what they're thinking to what   they're feeling. So, we have to   reconnect their heart and their mind.   So, we do a lot of what are you feeling?   Right? Literally, we'll show them a   compass and ask them to um and to to   point at what emotion they're feeling on   this emotion compass. Then, we go   through, okay, now we know what you're   thinking and what emotions it's leading   to.

 Let's like let's explore that   thought, right? So then we'll explore   why they believe what they believe. They   need to understand it. It doesn't matter   if I tell them why I think they believe   it. They need to know, right? Once they   understand why they believe something,   right? And also the types of potential   like thinking patterns that led them to   this potential faulty assumption, right?   it doesn't have as much power over them.

  If they can understand why they believe   that, you know, not having that last   drink or whatever it was wouldn't have   led to this trauma, we can then change   what they believe and it changes how   they feel about themselves because   they're no longer carrying this burden   of if I had just done this one thing,   none of this would have happened to me.

  That's a huge burden to carry, right?   And this is how people actually change   the way they feel because that's the   goal. The goal is to not like   overintellectualize. It's to change how   people feel over time, right? And to   move that dial.   >> So yeah,   >> it's almost remarkable. You know, you   know, [clears throat]   this is kind of like a logical way of   taking somebody through what happened to   them and and changing it.

 But for people   who've been had this, you know, since   childhood or for many years, you know,   who've had these intrusive thoughts and   are like really suffering badly.   >> I mean, it's kind of amazing this works.   [laughter]   >> I mean, it works because what also I   mean, it works for people who have   complex trauma and for for CPTTSD, too.

  The guidelines don't don't aren't   different at all. Um, and the reason why   it works is because a lot of people   haven't applied critical thinking to   their trauma because it's so scary to   them that they just come up with these   really, really frightening things,   right, that scare them that make them   feel shame and guilt and they don't know   how to unpeel that, like unpeel that   onion or like loosen the knot.

 And so   what trauma therapy does is that it   helps them loosen the knot, right, in a   really safe structured way. and and they   don't have to do a a worksheet for every   stuck point for the rest of their lives.   They literally change the way they think   and then they can't even believe the   original thought anymore because it   doesn't make sense to them,   >> right? That's that's that's I mean it's   it's amazing it works.

 It's fantastic it   works. And so, uh, now you now you   actually have some proof. [laughter]   Well, not some proof. You've you've   always said to me this we have   incredible results. And I always   thought, well, that's that's great. But,   uh, let's talk about the, uh, the   published the, uh,   >> Yeah.

 Yeah. And, and the thing is, the   great news about the proof is that it   actually reflects exactly what we see   with intensive trauma therapy in all of   the other studies, too. Right. So like   but but the I think what's magical about   this is that we took what worked works   in the research and we're doing it in   the community over and over again with   the same outcomes.

 Um and so   >> and and on tellah health and I suspect   most of there probably haven't been too   many tellah health studies about this   before.   >> No they're this is one of the largest   samples actually.   >> So this this is a paper that you you and   your team worked on uh which is about   the effects of mass cognitive CPT for   personic PTSD.

  um and just came out and this will was   the patients went through this when last   year   >> uh so I mean it's it's been like over   the last like couple years I can't   remember the exact time frame of it but   yeah yeah yeah recently   >> so and it's a pretty you know obviously   you know it takes a while to develop   these these studies these studies these   samples we have a fairly large sample of   patients who went through so can we can   you just go down I know you've got a   flowchart here of of how the thing was   done so I'm always interested did when   people come up with a study and say, you   know, we did this, do we, the other, but   looks like here that you had um 172   patients were enrolled and 148, so 85%   of my bad math finished. Um it sounds   pretty intensive and I assume there are   people who go I can't face doing this   three times a week and drop out when   people just let's talk about the people   who dropped out because because as you   as you'll see in a second the results   are so good for the rest of what

  happened you know um they're the ones   who quotequote you know suffer what   anecdotally why why are people dropping   why why would I know it's not a terrible   dropout rate compared to many many other   treatments but why why are people   dropping out?   >> Yeah. Yeah. So um people who drop out of   the the trauma therapy chiefly like the   number one reason why people drop out is   avoidance typically right I mean it's   literally a symptom of PTSD and so they   often times it manifests by them   avoiding the therapy right so that is   oftentimes what it is sometimes also   just like life comes up or there's   something that that's unforeseen and   they they have to pause treatment um and   so it's possible that some of these   patients like came back but then they   wouldn't have been um eligible for for   the study any longer.   >> Okay. Yeah. But but but I mean   >> let's not forget we're asking the   patients to do I mean they're having a   terrible set of symptoms but we're   asking to do a lot of work. I mean this   is not   >> it is it's a lot of work but we're super   clear about it. [laughter]   >> Right.   >> Yeah. Yeah. So sometimes so like if they   if they dropped it twice per week or   something like that it's not considered

  masked anymore. Um and so they wouldn't   have been eligible to continue.   >> Mass is just the meaning that it's it's   all happening in this compressed period.   >> Yeah. Exactly. So that's typically most   of the   >> three times or more.   >> Okay, great. All right. So, so   basically you had this 148 uh people who   went through the whole thing.

 They were   assessed. So, they're assessed during   the pro during the treatment and at the   end of the treatment and then you looked   again at 30 days, you looked again at 90   days and follow up. Not all them but   some of them. Um   >> uh so when you assess during the   treatment, what's what's the protocol   for how do you assess people? Is there a   scale or what's the   >> Yeah.

 Yeah. So we use something called   the PCL5 which is the PTSD chy symptom   checklist and it's similar to the PHQ9   for depression. So it's something that   the patient takes. It's scored out of   80. Um the PHQ is out of 27 I believe or   something like that. Um uh so different   you know different like range but very   similar concept.   >> And then what's it what it what it what   counts as PTSD on the scale? What's the   score? What's the bad score and what's   normal? Typically the cut off for a   provisional diagnosis is between 31 and   33 on the on uh the PCL5.   >> So 30 31 to 33 out of   >> anything above that out of 80 means I   have it. I have it.   >> Exactly.   >> And what was the average or what was the   range of people in uh when they   >> yeah this   >> so um let's see let me see if I can open   this up a little bit more. So it was   right around 50 if people can see. So   these are like plots of like what all of   the different um scores look like.

  >> I see. So we got some people in the   mid30s and some people up to the well   some people up to the 80s here but the r   the mid-range   >> exactly around 50 and that's like   moderate you know um probably squarely   moderate moderate severe for some people   and um so not like they weren't coming   in with mild symptoms of PTSD.

 Most   people like were squarely having PTSD   symptoms.   >> And then uh this is the results right?   So we're now down most people I mean   obviously not everybody but the vast   majority are now down below um   >> below the cutoff. Yeah. And the cut off   is inow.   >> Oh I see. Right. So you Yes. So the cut   off is actually in the mid range of is   40. Sorry 30.

  >> It's right cut off is almost everyone is   below that. Only one or two are   >> everyone's like very significantly yeah   below that for the most part. And um the   average um uh I can find the number in   here, but the average was right around   like 13 or something like that.   >> Okay. And I assume if you   >> if you did the general population,   they're probably everyone's at 13.

  >> Yeah. Yeah. So So yeah. So the   >> live we've lived through the Trump first   year of the Trump administration. We're   all probably at third. [laughter]   >> All right.   >> I know. And actually it was a bigger   drop. It was 51 and then they dro they   dropped 39 points by discharge. So that   would bring them to like to 10.

  >> All right. That's amazing. And then uh   so then so really I mean so the thing is   this really really works is the basic   bottom line right?   >> Yeah. [laughter]   Yes. Thankfully it really really works   in a very in a very short time frame.   >> Yeah. So what do the patients tell you?   So I mean that this is the numbers but   when someone's at the end of you know   they've done this and then out out the   other end and their life   >> I mean their lives must be pretty   different right? Oh, it's like it's it's   it's honestly magical, Matthew, to see   like as a as a clinician, too, because   there's there's not that many times in,   frankly, as a psychiatrist where I get   to see people recover in like 3 weeks or   four weeks, right? And um and and again,   they don't just feel better like these   people are losing the diagnosis   completely, right? And they sustain the   gains. And we also know that this is   just consistent like again this is   consistent with what we see in the   research literature, right? There are

  10-year follow-up studies of CPT that   show that you will sustain the gains   even 10 years later, right? So we can   assume that they will continue to   sustain the gains.   >> So sorry just to interrupt. When you   were looking at the 30 and the 90day   statistics, it looked like they were   creeping back up a little bit um later   on, but   >> yeah.

 Yeah, they look like they're   creeping back up, but it's not a   significant difference essentially. So,   um I think the only one where it was it   was significant was for the for the   anxiety one. There was like a little bit   of a creep up. Um but it was still   significantly under the cutoff for for a   diagnosis.

 And then the same thing   happened with the PCL. There was like a   few points like creep up, but it was   still like their their PCL was still 15,   which is like way under the DI like the   provisional cut off.   >> So, this is intensive therapy. Are you   also or these patients also tend to be   on medication? They I mean how's it   general medications like   anti-depressants and whatever else but   they've probably been I would suspect a   lot of these people have just been   shoved on antipressants for years   because no one knew what to do about it.   >> Yeah. So, um I and it's funny because   I'm a psychiatrist, right? But I   actually mostly deprescribe um at NEMA   [laughter]   um because people do take a bunch of   medications sometimes for their PTSD and   then they actually but the thing is meds   aren't first line for PTSD. People get   put on them because they can't find   trauma therapy, right? And so when they   actually get the trauma therapy that   leads to permanent recovery, medications   don't always medications help the   symptoms when you take them, but if you   stop them, the symptoms may come back   because you didn't actually process

  through your trauma, right? And so often   times we're taking people off meds or   we're actually telling them you don't   need to go to more trauma therapy. Like   you've recovered from this. Maybe you   have like if you have another diagnosis,   we'll help refer you to something else,   but you've actually lost one diagnosis.

  And it's really transformative for them.   in the last session of of trauma   therapy, we actually asked them, "Now   that you no longer have PTSD, what do   you want to do with your life?" Right?   And they're like crying because they've   never even thought that this was   possible for them. Um they they don't   they some of them are really scared too   because they don't know what they want   to do next, right?   >> So much of their identity for so long,   I'm sure.

 Yeah,   >> it is. Yeah. Often times it's been their   identity. If they had child abuse,   right, they don't even know who they are   sometimes, right? like they're getting   used to the fact that they have, you   know, a different outlook. Their   personality might have also changed too   because they're less angry or less   irritable, right? And so we used to   actually stop treatment after the IOP   like phase, like after the intensive   trauma therapy, because we didn't think   that people would want to see us   anymore. We thought we were like their   fairy godmothers, [laughter]   you know, like now, you know, we um we   we go and marry the prince or whatever   and like they don't want to think about   us anymore. But people really wanted to   stay with us because they were scared   like they were worried about this next   chapter of their lives. So then we   started a recovery phase that's called   RISE where we we offer like that   support. Um we help people with like we   we do like relationship groups like   groups on um on like DBT skills like   interpersonal effectiveness like how do   you build your life from this point on?   Um so we still provide support for folks

  because it's such a transformation.   >> We're clearly not as intense as that   first part. Fantastic. So let's talk   about the business of name of health for   a little bit. Um you've been in I want   to say doing this nearly two years now.   More than two years some I can't   remember actually.   >> Yeah maybe like four years.

 Yeah   >> four years. [laughter] Sure that   happened.   >> I know right.   >> Well um and uh what what this is mostly   people who have insurance or who's   paying for this and how much does it   cost? Give me give me a sense of what   the economics is.   >> Yeah. Yeah. So, um, right now we're in   over I think we're in actually 17 states   now.

 Um, and we have, uh, multiple like   insurance contracts that cover about 30   million lives. Um, and that's like   growing. Um, we also have a, uh, we also   work with Office of Victim Services in a   lot of different states and we take like   um, domestic violence patients, we take   crisis center referrals, we have a small   proono program as well.

 Um, and then   we're working on taking Medicaid, we   take some workers comp, too. So like the   idea is that this we want this you know   to provide outstanding care to anybody   who needs it regardless of ability to   pay. Um it's just that is a tall order.   So we're you know marching down the   contracts   >> and and ballpark what is the month-long   therapy cost?   >> Yeah.

 So the monthlong usually it   actually doesn't cost anything to the   patient because we can get it like fully   covered by their insurance. Right. We do   have like a cash pay option um where the   evaluation I think is like about 400 and   then each session is 250 um and it takes   about 12 sessions to complete um that   also includes the cost of other things.

  So it includes peer mentorship as well   um and uh case management too within it.   So it that sounds like I don't know how   much you're getting from the what you're   getting from the payers varies but it   sounds like it's about a $3,000ish   you know program for for for the for the   all all in which I mean for the   intensity is and for the results sounds   you know really a fantastic value   obviously there is a kind of slight   question here and I know you are doing   follow-up stuff but uh um when you when   you when you look at this is as a   business I mean a lot of the business of   healthcare is I want to keep you coming   back and you want people to stop coming   back.   >> No, we want people to stop coming back.   >> I guess I guess the the good slashbad   news is all if you say 80% of the of the   country has this and 10% of them have   10% of the 80% have really bad PTSD   symptoms, you probably have a lot of   people who need your help.   >> Yeah, there yeah there are there are a   lot of folks and you know I mean I think

  this this model works really well for   patients who want to feel better faster,   right?   um they they want structure. Um this   isn't open-ended in a therapy, right?   Some people want really really really   exploratory therapy. This is therapy   that does have a goal for folks where we   really truly want to move the dial for   folks um and help them sort of   independently manage their their lives   like afterwards.

  So uh on the ground I mean I I don't   know how many other people I know that   uh NOCD the OCD company recently bought   a a pro a company called prebound health   which is in this space you hear a lot   about um where I mentioned earlier you   know psychedelic therapy for this space   but   >> what I mean just ballpark and looking   looking at the space the way you do how   many people who have PTSD who need   treatment are getting   I mean assuming those other treatments   work is what it's got to do how people   are getting this and what share of the   market have you got to so far?   >> Yeah. Um, yeah, great question. I mean,   I think that we've gotten to like a   really small share of the market because   we're still we're still like rap like   growing. We also want to make sure that   we're we're we're um getting to, you   know, the patients in an accessible way.   So, like it is really important that we   take insurance, we make this affordable   for people, right? Um, and then the the   other piece too is like there are I mean   most people with PTSD are not getting   the right treatments. they're they're

  stalling out in terms of their progress   because they're not getting trauma   therapy, right? Or they're getting no   treatment at all, but they're getting   treated for something else that is a   downstream effect of their trauma like   substance use disorder. This is also a   stress disorder, right? So, they're   getting high blood pressure.

 They're   getting like diabetes and like chronic   illnesses and stuff like that because   they're constantly under stress. So, the   cost to the system are really, really   high here. Um, and I think it's great   that there are more, you know, like   treatments and solutions that are coming   out for PTSD because, you know, there   needs to be more awareness that it's the   trauma specific solutions that actually   move the dial here.

 Um, it's just that a   lot of them are still really   experimental. So, psychedelics, MDMA   assisted psychotherapy, they don't have   the same evidence base as something like   the first line treatments that have been   around for like 25 years and show that   they can actually drive remission. um um   and keep people in remission.

 So, a lot   of these way more expensive solutions or   um you know uh the psychedelics, there's   no data to show that they lead to   long-term recovery.   >> Yeah. So, you know, more more   researching for them, not for CBT   because it's been around. What you're   saying is that it just hasn't been   scaled effectively.

 So, on that thing,   we'll end with this. um you know what is   the current when somebody has some kind   of mental health condition and we've   seen a gazillion billion dollars spent   on building mental health companies in   recent the last 10 years as you know um   what is the uh and some of it's gone to   you I think you raised uh 14 million   last year is that right [laughter]   >> yeah like a year ago yeah   >> so so need health but I mean we're   talking about the hundreds of millions   raised by the luras and the springs and   these these these companies um and you   know obviously there's a lot of general   general money being spent on on on this   in in in primary care across the board.   How much screening is being done to   identify PTSD as the cause of a lot of   this stuff and you know if you say 80%   have had something and 10% of the 80%   you know which is millions of people was   you know it's on the verge of you know   it's 30 million people plus require   something. How much screening has been   done generally to figure out that this

  is a condition that could lead to all   these downstream conditions and you know   get them to somebody who might need to   do something about it?   >> Yeah. So I think it varies widely   depending on the population. Um and   there are there's more screening being   done but it just is yeah very population   dependent.

 So the state of California is   screening all children now um for it um   for you know ACEs like adverse childhood   events which includes traumatic events   um and then you know obviously the VA   screens like very diligently for this   right um there's more maternal health   screening now as well for PTSD because   there's a lot of you know the perinatal   period is a high risk period for trauma   too so it just depends on the population   but the other thing too is that a lot of   people know that there's something   wrong. So, a lot of people are   self-sreening as well because trauma and   PTSD is just becoming more prevalent in   the zeitgeist.   >> Yeah. And I heard a just appalling   podcast this morning on from New York   Times. I think it's New York Times about   a the women undergoing C-sections who   weren't being properly anotized and   weren't getting pain blockers and were   like feeling it all for the surgery and   you know that's a PTSD event, right?   >> Yeah.   >> Hope you Yeah. Hopefully it's a minority

  thing but you know we've heard you yeah   there are terrible things going on   during medical care gap as we know which   can which can lead to PTSD let alone all   the stuff you're talking about. So uh so   that's fantastic. So um brilliant. So   what is your so give me give me a uh you   raised some money you've got some good   good data now obviously there's more   studies to come there's more more work   to be done what is the next step for how   do you how do you get this to you know I   just announced there are 30 million   potential clients you probably haven't   got to the first [laughter]   more than few thousand so how do you get   what are you going to do to get to the   rest how does this work   >> yeah I mean I think that for us it's   really about making sure that we have   like you know, um, significant   penetration with like like insurance   companies in the geographies in which   we're at. Um, and then it's really I   think we we're we're growing like lots.   We know that we can also maintain the   same outcomes and quality like as we   grow. And so it's sort of like just

  continuing to march down the path that   we're marching down is just like making   sure that we continue to make this   accessible um and um and and and get it   out to more people. Um we have some like   awareness campaigns going on. We have a   partnership with um with Gabrielle Union   who um who shared that she actually did   our program.

 Um so so a lot about like   trying to make sure that we're   increasing awareness that treatments for   PTSD like exist and are really effective   and helping people make sure that   they're getting into the right care.   >> Fantastic. So I've been Sophia Nori, Dr.   S orange uh just a outstanding   uh psychiatrist and company CEO and   definitely one of my favorites in the   digital health space.

 Sevilla thanks   congrats on on the publication. Congrats   on the work. Congrats on the growth of   Nema and uh look forward to this   continuing on as as and really most   importantly helping a lot more people.   >> Thanks Matthew. We really appreciate   your support.



