Title: Steve Brown, CureWise -- AI for patients
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6lL-BWzo29Y
Language: en
Duration: 00:44:02
Upload Date: Jul 31, 2025

Transcription:

[Music] Hey, it's Matthew Halt, another THCB spotlight here and here with uh one of the real OGs of health tech and digital health. And people call me an OG, but uh I think I met Steve Brown uh back in I want to say 1996 97 when he was bringing around the Institute for the Future where I was working a video game about how to deal with your diabetes, which eventually evolved into Health Hero, which was one of the for those of you who who go back away in the 2000s was one of the uh the very first sort of

at-home uh tools that people used to manage CHF and diabetes and god knows what So Steve, uh, good to see you. It has been a while. Before we get on to what Cure Wise is and what you're doing now, um, uh, and probably, you know, talk about the 15 years you took off to go and work in Hollywood or what have you been doing in movies. Just just remind people what Health Hero did and who it did it for. And, you know, you were early on in that whole thing, which was then called disease management. So,

uh, remind me about that part of your health health tech past. that we were very early, I'd say painfully early in this um aspect of healthcare that we probably all take for granted now, which is it kind of makes sense to um monitor high-risk patients at home um and uh identify problems earlier rather than uh waiting till someone's admitted to the hospital. So we were the you know very early on in this field of remote patient monitoring and chronic care management. so early that we were also the pioneer

in helping get uh the language about chronic care and remote patient monitoring into an act of Congress into the George Bush's healthcare reform in 2003 which sort of defined a lot of the terms for remote patient monitoring and chronic care management. Um, and we were able to do that because we had the national as a startup, we won the national contract with the VA to go from pilots in Florida to a national contract of of actually doing um kind of a more modern version of chronic care for heart

failure, diabetes with complications and mental health and a lot of other things. Oh, very cool. So, yeah, Health Hero was definitely a pioneer back in the day. Got sold to Bosch, right? the German uh I guess auto and god knows what else they make parts manufacturer back in the day. Um when did you actually leave healthier? when they did well when when we sold the company I would say that that uh I say that the the premise for the acquisition was you know Bosch's competitors were like GE and Seammens and they all had giant

healthcare divisions and Bosch didn't but Bosch made a lot of the sensors that that uh you know went into cars and iPhones and everything else and and the idea is if you were going to be in if Bosch were going to be in healthcare they should be a platform uh they should provide a platform for the industry but I I'd say that that that that timing in the market everybody was sort of thinking that um we should be a disease management company which turns out to be kind of an archaic idea. Um what our our

idea all along was like we need this to be part of the practice of medicine. you know, doctors should be able to get paid for tellaalth. And so when we did our um you know, the our work in Medicare and we actually ended up getting a a contract directly with Medicare where Medicare paid us and we paid doctors because we needed to model for you know doctors should just be able to do this. You shouldn't have to have some other entity out there working for the health plan. It just should be part of the

practice of medicine. It just makes sense. Well, now that's kind of how we practice medicine. I have more I have more telealth visits and I get more texts and emails and you know from from the clinic than than I do anything in person. I mean it's it's all remote. So and that's a much more efficient way of doing care. So we were early in that field paved the way for the industry. But when we sold the company it was you know it's kind of painful if you need an act of Congress. You know it's a painful

thing to tell your investors as well. They it's not a metaphor. It's like really we do need an act of Congress and we did end up getting one but that's still just the beginning of the journey. So, you know, I was like life's too short to do another healthcare deal as I went in a different consumer entertainment film uh documentaries uh fun interesting uh things. But when AI uh came well when CO shut all the film stuff down and then when AI came out I kind of dove back into technology and

realized oh this is actually a really interesting time to be in technology. Absolutely. So you uh somewhere in that coming back you started working I think you were hanging out with Peter Diamandis who is uh pretty well known from his role of the X-Pris singularity and now doing all this longevity stuff. I think he also was sending me emails about all the 727 supplements he's taking and all the weight training he's doing and how he's going to lift 150. Not sure I want to do that, but we'll

but we'll see. But uh but uh I know you're working with him on some of the AI stuff he was doing. But I mean um you also then went on your own health journey, which I think is what what uh what what what happened where care where QIS comes from. So tell us just uh you know what happened to you um and then uh that'll I think inform a lot of what happened what Qise is up to. Yeah, I I this is not a mission that I chose. It's a mission that chose me. I was actually was working with Peter

Diamandis. I still am working with him and advising on um abundance 360 and I presented at the last three of their events I've shown AI stuff and actually it was like a year and a half ago I showed um multiple agents debating each other, a chain of debate. Um and one of the examples I gave is well this is one of the ways of mining the intelligence that's built into these models or that the knowledge that's in these models and to to advance medical research was one of my examples I gave on stage by

essentially having agents trained in different ways debating each other and coming up with um new ideas within a kind of a a mission and guard rails that I'd set for for the agents. I showed medicine and I also showed physics. Um originally I studied physics. I did a documentary on uh the guys who won the Nobel Prize for for astrophysics a few years ago. Um so but you know this is like how do we we have this amazing tool called artificial intelligence that has managed to compress the entire knowledge

of humanity this sort of collective consciousness of humanity into this black box called an LLM. Um and uh it's amazing what's in there. Um but I the question is that when you ask a question different question in a different way you get a different answer. So um you know like that's not super comforting you know dealing with medicine it feels like well it's supposed to be deterministic but it's kind of unpredictable on the answers I get. Well, when I started looking at medicine, I was actually in the

hospital. Um, and I would had been doing a bunch of stuff in education where the diversity of ideas is great because it's a way of, you know, like learning different things. But when you get to medicine, do I really want uh, you know, different answers depending on how I answer ask the question? Generally, that doesn't give you a lot of confidence. But I I started saying, well, what if we flip the script on that? And uh you know what if a diversity of agents is actually a better way of mining the

knowledge that's in there and sorting through it to make sure you didn't miss anything and to figure out where the knowledge converges for you. Um you know you might ask chat GPT about hey my medical condition and you know depending on how you ask the question they're getting different answers and that happens when I take different points of view with my medical agents there are different answers but then we go synthesize all those and we say hey where do they agree where do they disagree and you know often it's like

you you get an you get an answer from one and a little bit different answer from another one and I'll show you uh uh this and then if they talk to each other they say hey actually that's a good idea you know thanks for reminding me about that you they they do converge on things that are actually quite useful and in the end that's really useful in helping you know what to talk to your doctor about and knowing what to ask for and the treatments that I'm on right now are not the standard of care. So tell me a

bit about not the things that the doctor said, "Hey, here's what you should do." They're things that I said, "Well, how about this? How about that?" You know, like, "I think I need this." And you know, like the doctors were the, you know, if I asked for something crazy, the doctors would say no. But, you know, generally, you know, if you're if you if you have a good idea and you're on the right track with it, it's really helpful for you to be able to advocate for it.

So, tell me about, you know, you were sitting at home doing fine and then one day you started feeling sick. What what what what what was what was the symptoms that were you uh you know what was the what what put you in the hospital? Well, so for for about a year before I had been feeling like you know something's off and then I and you know I I had a doctor and I you know I ended up going to a cardiologist and then a cardiologist and a gastronurologist and I was kind of like test everything. gave

me the full body scan, the endoscopy, the colonoscopy, the heart. I want it all. I just turned 60 and but I had also like lost like 25 pounds, right? And uh and I had like you know abdominal discomfort and um you know some things that seemed like h this might be some cardiac thing and um you know it's like I I got to figure out what's going on. I want to start a new company. I'm ready to start an AI company, but you know, like I gota I gota like I I don't want any excuses. Test everything. I got to

figure out what's going on. So I went through that and had you know scans and tests and I had everything and then I had like a massive amount of data in in my chart but I mean literally the gastronurologist was like you know I think it's gas take gas. like if I was a screenwriter, I wouldn't even written that because it's like, you know, like no, who's going to believe that? Um, and the cardiologist was like, you know, this is a fishing expedition and um, you know, I maybe you're just depressed. Um,

and you know, I yeah, it's like I'm depressed that you can't figure out. Um, but you it's like it turns out, you know, there's a lot of biology going on. You know, there's a lot of biology that are in these tests, but but you know, like a lot, this happens very very often in cancer. You have all these tests, but things just don't feel like specific enough. You it's hard to see the signal and the noise, right? Um, so what happened then is the fires of Los Angeles, the great fire of

January 7th and 8th, 2025, burned down our, you know, whole part of town, including our house. Um, And uh you know we're we're like you know we we we we ended up being displaced from LA. Um we're in uh Palm Desert near Palm Springs and we're staying with friends and um I ended up going out to dinner at the Ritz Carlton and getting a big steak dinner. I finally sort of had my appetite back and I had a big steak dinner. But then the whole weekend was just writhing in pain. Um that there was uh there was

something going on um that I thought I was obstructed from the stake like nothing was going down. Everything was coming up and nothing was going through me and I was just in in pain. By Monday morning, you know, I didn't have my leftover percoet from my kidney stone where I would might have powered through it if I was still back at home. Um but you know, all that stuff burned. So, Monday morning I went into the ER and I said, "I need a CT scan to rule out obstruction." Okay? You know, I kind of

knew what to ask for. Um, but they did the CT scan. They found a bunch of stuff that my CT scan just couple weeks before they didn't see or didn't, you know, didn't really, you know, sort of missed. Um, and it's like and they did a bunch more tests and then the hospitalists, you know, hospitalists are really known for being blunt and direct and having this wonderful bedside manner, but you know, my hospitalist was fantastic. It's like cancer until proven otherwise. I'm like, oh So, so I get admitted to

the hospital um because that's fast track for getting biopsies and everything, you know, if otherwise it's like, hey, we can fit you in in two months, you know, it's like you're in the hospital stuff happens faster. So I got admitted to the hospital. I was really really lucky that uh that they admitted me to the hospital and didn't say just do all this out outpatient like they realized that hey either the CT scan was you know the records were switched and the one I had a couple

weeks before or or what I had was really aggressive um because it there was stuff that just wasn't there. Um so I got in the you know I got admitted to the hospital got a biopsy of lymph node biopsy. It's like ah they couldn't find cancer but they found some other stuff and then I got a bone marrow biopsy I got but you know and stuff to get cytogenetics get sent off to the Mayo Clinic and you know I'm I'm you know it's like two weeks to kind of get all the the stuff together

and it's like okay you have this rare blood cancer that's related to multiple myyoma treated the same way as multiple myyoma but in some ways more dangerous like it's immed like it literally said like you know high risk of morbidity and mortality it's like in the notes the record. It's like, well, nobody said that to my face. I find it in my my chart uh record, but it's because the cancer cells actually are creating a toxic misfolded protein that was accumulating in my heart, my kidneys,

and in my gut. So, I was having, you know, the issues I was having, you know, there are cardiac issues, there were gastrointestinal issues, but they just were not uh, you know, they were not um we didn't ask the right question. We were was a fishing expedition, but we were fishing in the wrong pond, right? Um so, you know, now that we kind of identified, okay, here's the right pond, um I immediately got on uh the chemotherapy cocktail, which is the first line standard of care for multiple

myyoma and u uh which you know, which initially in the first month was through doing you know the numbers were coming down and it was uh uh you know was working. Um, then it started to slow down. It started to slow down more than an exponential decay. It was like, oh, it's like, you know, it's not going down anymore. What's going on? I started looking again with the AI as my assistant, but but looking into the cytogenetics and looking into the all the details and the attachments on my

chart with AI um helping me interpret and understand, you know, what does all this mean? um and realizing that um oh, you know, the standard of care is probably not going to work on me. It's not going to get me where I need to be, but there's other stuff, there are other drugs that are much more targeted to my cytogenetics. So, I started asking for those drugs and you know, the initial response is it's not the standard of care. It's not approved for that. It's off label. Your insurance is never going

to pay for it. So, I started going to, you know, I need to go I need to I need to find people that look, it's pretty pretty rare. You know, I'm hardly any show up where I am, but you know, what about UCSD? What about UCSF? What about Stanford? Well, it turns out Stanford doesn't take Blue Shield, so I can go to Stanford. But I, you know, I got into UCSD and UCSF and then I got into Mayo Clinic and I flew out to Mayo Clinic. What motivated me to fly out to Mayo Clinic is the day after

I gave the talk at NextMed that you saw um where I talked about the kind of diagnostic side. I went to my new cardiologist at UCSD and I was concerned that my response was flattening out and he said um something was very very motivational to me. He said, "Look, don't think that these are the only tools in our toolkit. There's always heart transplant." And I'm like, "Oh boy." You know, like I need to get to the Mayo Clinic. So, um, you know, I I already knew I already had a pretty

good idea of what I thought I needed, but I needed to find doctors who actually were doing this because it's off label and had some experience with it. Um, and I went to the Mayo Clinic and and got worked up there and with one of the top people in the world for my condition. and she said, "Uh, yeah, I agree that this is the right thing for you to be doing." And like like you know, I I you know, confirmed my second opinion is that that that's the right thing. My doctor at UCSD also agreed.

She prescribed it. Um and uh and she wrote the, you know, the appeal letter or whatever you needed to do to get the insurance company to to pay for this off label. And you know, it makes a lot of sense for the insurance company to pay for it because it's a lot, it's super expensive, but it's a lot cheaper than a heart transplant, right? So, you know, I ended up getting onto the right treatment protocol because I learned about the condition and I learned about my own medical record using AI. The doctors still, you

know, prescribed the treatments. The doctors still, but you know, I was a more informed patient and I knew what to ask for. So, fast forward not very long, you know, few weeks really, uh, you've built this into a product. So why don't you show us what what you've built and uh you know essentially how you take all that different knowledge from very knowledge different questions and and put it together. So uh show us what kill wise looks like. Yeah. And I and I don't want to play I

just did this a couple weeks. I've been working on this for like two years. I was one of the first people to get an open AI API key. I've been working on this uh and iterating this. What I did is I pivoted it to um uh uh you know let's away from physics or space exploration of what you were doing away from say more education and entertainment right to um uh you know asking medical questions and they're really two parts of it one is like what we're doing today is AI powered tools that will help you

understand you know help you be able to ask questions and understand what your medical chart might mean and help you talk to your doctor. The longer term vision of this and the mission of this is that the someday cancer is going to be cured. The pathway to curing cancer is precision medicine. It's it's rather than carpet bombing cancer, it's get narrow it down to the to the thing that specifically targets the specific cancer that you have um and doesn't do all this collateral damage. You know that that's

if we can do that, that's called a a cure. And the only way to really get there is through AI. I mean, every president since Nixon has had some version of a war on cancer. And they never, you know, we, it's like, wait, if we can put a man on the moon, why can't we cure cancer? Well, the fact is that the way we develop medical knowledge, the randomized control trial, assumes you've got like a whole group of people that are, you know, as close to identical as possible, and we vary one

thing. Well, in cancer, especially as you get closer and closer to to um you know, more precision personalized medicine, everybody's different, right? It's like everybody has a unique genetic mutation that the planet's never seen before. It's first of all, it's your unique genes, which are unique on this planet, plus the unique genetic mutation. So, it's it's until you get to where it's, you know, really targeting the genetics of what you have. Um, you know, it's a different paradigm for the

knowledge. And that paradigm is something that AI can thrive on a diversity of case studies, but a randomized control trial needs uniformity. So, you know, the the paradigm of the of the way we kind of build medical knowledge now, well, it's sort of hitting a wall. It's already hitting a wall in the the um even with what I have like the doctor I have at UCSF, he was recruiting patients for a clinical trial on to study to a phase two study on the combination of stuff that I'm taking and and I'm like I

need to talk to this guy because he pulled the trial, canceled the trial. So So I'm like, well, what's going on? It's like, well, I couldn't get enough patients for it. You needed 10 people. You know, it's like I couldn't get 10 people. Um so you know that there's a different paradigm for medical knowledge with um uh uh AI and the challenge is that you know you ask a question a different way or you you have a different point of view on it you get a different answer. So how do I make that

something that's actually useful? Well I created agents that have okay look let's have a bunch of different points of view. So here are a bunch of different points of view, you know, internal medicine, cardiology, neurology, oncology. Um, you know, and I can go talk to all these different points of view about my own medical record. But what I really want to do is I want to run all the points of view. Um, and I want to uh synthesize that information because the fact is a diversity of points of view is good if

that's helping you cover all your blind spots um and uh you know get a more comprehensive view. So, so here I'm going and I'm I'm choosing all of the tests, all of the knowledge of my condition as of late 2024, um, you know, end of the year, all the information that my prior doctors had were so ju just just to check on that, you had to upload, you had to take from my chart and upload a bunch of stuff into this, right? Yeah. So, I it's not yet fully integrated with all that. So you

basically download your medical record then you upload it here where you know then then you're it's you own your medical record but there are a number of people doing doing that side of things and plug into them pretty easily. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. So we will we'll make it easier. We'll have it fully integrated. But right now it's um you know the the oldfashioned way where there's no dependency. You can just download and upload your data and you know try to make that easy to do. Drag and drop your

files into here. But but right now it's like okay so I'm choosing a model. I'm choosing a scenario and um and I'm going to say like okay I want all these different points of view and I'm going to I'll use the quick diagnostic template. It's like oh like you know re re this is like the instructions to the AI from all these different points of view. So so when I run the the analysis what it's doing is it's like asking that question in parallel with all these different points

of view. So, you know, some of these are like, you know, invented characters, you know, from the future. And some of them are like kind of modeled on like a, you know, a hematologist and a oncologist or um cardiologist. And here my AI cardiologist saying it's okay, I understand. Is that in by the way? Is that in Claude? Can you say treat this? This and I'll show you where I compare the models next. But so this is this is um you know there's there's different Okay. Well, let me let me go to where there's

some differences. So the hematologist says, "Oh, I think it's CVID based on all this. It's uh uh you know like like I think it's this or maybe it's a you know pre-malignant whatever hematologic malignancy." the the the oncologist says, "Oh, plasma cell disorder, early multiple myyoma." Now, it's a different answer to the same data because they changed the point of view, right? And you kind of would have thought, well, maybe the hematologist would have gotten it because, you know, this is a

hematological thing and you but but look, they're they're not that far off. It's like, oh, there's, you know, their number two is kind of the same, but uh but you know, but but here, so this the AI oncologist is saying, you know, you need to get this test. Well, if id asked for this test a year ago, I would have been diagnosed a year ago, right? Um, but I didn't get this test, you know, even when I said test everything, I didn't get that test. Um, but so this, you know, when when when this when the

AI oncologist turned out to be 100% spot on to exactly what I had and what I needed and uh, you know, looking at the same data and here, even though it's like, hey, I think it might be something else, but from a differential diagnosis standpoint, I still want you to get this test. I would have asked for that test and they I would have gotten that test and I would have been diagnosed. So that's but this is again a whole bunch of different points of view. But but the but just to be clear the the

real life oncologist you saw didn't suggest that. No no the real life oncologist I had I didn't have an oncologist. I had a cardiologist neurologist. Um but you know they were suspecting like you know we're going to test. They didn't realize that they needed an oncologist at that point. Well they did all these cancer tests. Um uh but you know they sort of did the ones that they knew but they didn't do this one. Right. Um uh so now now what I'm doing is I have like you know seven different

points of view with seven different answers to the same question. Now what I want to do is I want to take another agent to kind of synthesize that and see did we learn was there any consensus was there any convergence um from those different points of view because um you know like what what what do I learn you know what so that you know the consensus is that hey you know what tier one is like definitely get this test like you know like like and so like what the heck is this test like I want to get

this test so you know this was a process of looking like you know diagnostically like what tests should I ask for because you know what you you you'll get a range of tests but if you go into the doctor and say well what about this test kind of like when you talk to chat GPG say what about this and chat GPG says oh you know what that's a good idea you're right like it's like you get if you if you ask good questions you get better answers so I can go in and I can um oh let's say I want to go talk to my

oncologist now I can go continue this conversation and So kind of like you know now I'm in chat mode. I'm chatting about uh you know what is this light you know like you I can basically now I can go and you know talk about this and go further and you know I'm you know and and this is I'm having educational conversation. I'm kind of rehearsing conversation that I might take to my doctor. I might like learn a bunch of stuff. So you know I could say here like what should I ask my doctor? Um, or I

might uh I'm going to I guess I let it run, but um you know, it's like giving me a bunch of stuff I need to learn about. It's giving me a a list like, hey, this this you need this test. Here's why it's urgent. Here's why I should get this test. It's like I don't even know what to ask next. Well, okay. Well, what question should I ask next? You like I don't even know where to start with this. So, now this is um the AI looking at the conversation saying, hey, here's

some good questions to ask of the AI. like oh you know what questions should I ask my hematologist oncologist when I see you know how should I prepare you know should I be worried about infections you know should I do this should I do that is what if it turns out to be multiple myoma what's the prognosis so like you know like okay this is these are useful uh questions to to ask now um you know preparing for my visit like like hey you know this is super useful if you make a little cheat sheet for

yourself and say like okay you know I'm gonna I'm going to do my homework and prepare. You know, you have, you know, maybe you only have 10 minutes with your doctor. How do you make every one of those minutes count? Well, right, educate yourself so that you kind of go, you know, figure some things out so you can ask better questions. And I did this repeatedly with my own treatment. That's how I got on to the drugs I'm on. And then I'm on the drugs and I'm thinking like, okay, now I'm really got this

thing, you know, licked. And then uh a friend of mine I you know I sort of saying it's you know it's it's a variant of multiple myyoma but you know it's I used to say it's multiple myoma is the word that's common enough that people um you know I could I say it's like it's related to multiple myoma and a friend of mine said um oh multiple myyoma you know my brother just died of that and then he said uh well he didn't die of multiple myoma he died of an infection

and I'm like Oh my gosh, you know, like I'm immune compromised, you know, I'm going to conferences, you know, I'm like, you know, like I could die of pneumonia or COVID or something, you know, and so then I'm again talking to the AI about, well, what do I do about infections and I'm learning things like, well, I have, you know, I I shouldn't even ask you because I haven't got gone through the whole, you know, I haven't been diagnosed yet, but with this test from

late 2024, Well, I learned a bunch of things from the AI that, hey, you know what? Um, there are things you can do about this, you know, okay, wash your hands, you know, wear masks, you know, all this stuff, but but it was from one of these conversations. He's not saying anything here, but he saying that's because I'm I'm at an earlier stage on on this, but it was through this sort of conversation process like saying, "What about this? What about that?" I I end up on a

prophylactic antibiotic for community acquired pneumonia. I'm on I'm I'm like, "Hey, my body's not making um antibodies right now." So, um I you know, I put this in there. My my my I'm I'm presuming a little bit more advanced knowledge than end of 2024 right now. So, I'm I'm But since we're already here, I'll just do this. My body is not making And I do um so then I I I I learned about there's this thing called IV immunogloabbulins. I learned it from the

AI. It's like oh well you can actually get infusions of this IVIG. You can get imunogloabbulin replacement therapy. Well I didn't know anything about that. So I start asking about that. I go to my doctor and I say, "Well, I think I need IVIG because look, I I can tell from my other numbers and my my labs are much more advanced after this. I'm learning from my other numbers that um it's like, okay, in the process of wiping out the cancer, it's been very successful. I've

also wiped out the things that make my antibodies. What can I do about that?" So, anyways, I I I I get prescribed IV immunoglins. My insurance company's paying for it. It's like, "Hey, you know what? this a good idea, you should get this. Um, let's prevent infections rather than wait until you get one. Um, so anyway, so there's a lot of bits about, you know, like uh talking to your agents. You can have your agents talk to each other. You can um uh you know, kind of kind of rebuild helping you rebuild

your personal health record and put it together in a way that's useful to AI. Um I say you you can do the same thing with models. You can say, "Okay, well, what is uh let me use these tests, but you know, how does GPT 4.1 compare to Claude compared to Grock compared to Deep Seek?" And of course, they, you know, they all have different answers, too. But how do I synthesize that? Because there's a tremendous amount of medical knowledge in there, but what you get out of it is unpredictable. So, what

you're looking at is multiple points of view. Where's the convergence? Because you can learn something from the convergence. So, so I'm I'm doing that. And look, this is still sort of for the advanced user. The the next iterations of this is like, you know, the beast mode button where we just run all this stuff a whole bunch of different ways and synthesize it and and find figure out where the convergence or consensus is. Because what that is is it's it's a it's a way of of weeding out the sort of

the unpredictability, you know, the hallucinations, the stuff, you know, it's like it does convert. When it converges, it's really good. Um so then also I'm doing this like hey apply this to a clinical trial search and what trials do I might I qualify for what can I learn from that so um you so it's I'm I'm creating a very I'd say robust tool set for that helps you be an advocate helps you understand your medical record what's going on helps you advocate for things that's the wise side of cure wise

the other side of it is the research side of this like the you know as we get more advanced AI and as we get more case studies um and as people participate in the research side of it how do we learn from uh a large number of case studies things that we can't even learn from a clinical trial because we can't find enough uniformity to actually do a clinical trial but how do we learn from that how do we actually advance personalized precision medicine on the research side so so that's the the the

mission of the company um is to you know when I was in the disease management business I mean I knew like people don't want disease now how do we how do we use the data with people's permission to be on truly what people want which is let's advance medicine you know we don't want just more tools we want really want better solutions fantastic all right so two quick questions to to finish with the first one is is so other than someone has to write the script If if this gets good enough, do we do we need a doctor?

Is this you need a doctor? You need a doctor. I think it's, you know, the doctor is always going to be the human in the loop. You know, they the the you know, the AI is um deterministic in that these are all like known states, but when you add up a trillion parameters, it's unpredictable. It's like the free body problem. small change here leads to big change uh there. So um AI is unpredictable when you start doing complex things. My my solution for that is a swarm of agents and a kind of chain of debate

among the agents to find the convergence which is really about finding finding the uh you know the the the best knowledge that's there. But if you just look at the way the output is, is it it could be this, it could be that, maybe you should get this other test or maybe you should think about this, talk to your doctor about this. In the end, um the do every drug I'm on, everything I'm on, the doctors prescribed. Um and I need the doctors to prescribe that and I I want the doctors to

prescribe that. But my conversation with my doctor was completely informed by AI. Do you think that the typical doc I mean I know there's open evidence and uh got other programs now out there and other tools out there. We're just trying to sort of replace up to date with using LLMs and and do you think or people are just using you know claude or whatever for drive by consults now. Um do you think doctors are the doctors you've been working with have been keeping up with these kinds of tools? Are they are

they ahead of you now or are you ahead of them? Well, it's impossible. I mean, like literally physically, mentally impossible for a doctor to keep up with the knowledge generated in medicine. Sure. But are they able to keep up? Are they using these types of tools to be found? Well, there is a whole field of um let's create more advanced AI enabled decision support for doctors. Sure. So, I believe that that's happening and going to happen and it's going to be fantastic in helping doctors

be better doctors. But but in your experience of of what you've gone through, have your doctors been tapping into this kind of thing or um well when I went to the Mayo Clinic, my doctor said that Mayo Clinic is all over um AI and they're doing all kinds of stuff with AI and I had AI like, "Hey, we can like look at your EKG with AI and and see whether or not you we can probably find let's let's you know, it's like 5,000 bucks, but you know, like um you know, like like yes, there's tons of

AI happening. But they also said at Mayo Clinic is hey what you're doing is like actually different than what we're doing. There's a lot of things that are happening and like like the easy things are hey let's just transcribe the conversation and you know automate the making of the notes. Well that's that's easy stuff. So so there's a lot of machine learning uh AI where it's like you know an imaging. Yeah. So we had a you know we had a 100,000 images and we had the labels of well

what was there? Can we can we now predict the label um you know from imaging. So that that's sort of old school AI. What's different, what's new is the medical inference from especially from case studies. Um and you know that that is a frontier. Um and that is something that where I think there's immense potential. That's the area that I'm that I'm diving into because you know like if you have 100,000 case studies and you train you use that in a AI model training or fine-tuning you you

have you can do inference from that whereas you know 100,000 case studies you're trying to just search it or whatever you're you're you're not going to we don't know how to make we don't know what to do with that. It looks like a bunch of anecdotes. So it's a different um paradigm for knowledge management. Um so I think that that's super interesting and that's Frontier. Um so that's the area that's most interesting. But I was think so there there are companies dedicated to doing

AI decision support and there's a lot of work in that field. I'm sure there's a lot of AI going on with insurance companies saying hey let's use all this data and let's help make better um you know decisions on that side. But that's in the interest of like you know you know it's more like hey how you know it's like how long till this guy's going to be on Medicare so we don't have to pay for him anymore versus uh are we going to have to pay for a heart transplant if we don't do that okay well

we did the math on it and you know the insurance company has a different set of objectives so but but doing it from the who's who has the patient's back who's doing this on the patient you know the patients perspective um you know there's a lot of kind of people using chat GBT for you know, that's happening right now. But, but to really do this in a way that is more um I'd say more useful and more focused, especially around something as complicated as cancer, you know, that

that's the that's the mission that I'm I'm picking on. All right. So, one minute on where you are as a company and organization. It's been you building this out and obviously you build a lot of this stuff yourself. um what's what's the sort of next steps to get other people onto the onto keyways.com and you know and start using it and and figure out what you know how you build up those case studies. So it's a it's in a private beta right now because it's you know very kind of

closely uh managed in the state that it's in but we're making it more and more I'd say consumerfriendly um I'm just in the process of incorporating it. I have a number of people that want to invest in it. So, we're doing the seed round and then going through all of the things that we need to go through to launch it publicly, which includes um you know, all of the all of the compliance review stuff and making sure we're on all of that boring stuff you have to get through,

all the stuff you have to all the necessary things you have to get through, but also all the things we need to do to make it more useful and easier to to to use. And the goal is to get thousands of thousands of those ends of ones on the on the system using it. Uh to get tens of thousands of people using it uh as a tool for themselves while in parallel with that building the process and the the the methodology and the models to to use the data that people give us permission to use. um in to advance the research side of

precision oncology, precision medicine. And you know what what how it's already worked for me personally is an example of precision medicine. I'm I'm on a much more precise regimen now than the standard of care precise and that it's mapped to my situation. Um uh you know as treatments advance you need to get better and better of like mapping your cytogenetics to the um you know the the right kind of cocktail so that you get a better result and that's going to become you know that that's that's a research

challenge to get that right and AI is a phenomenal tool for that. So while we're doing tools for patients like me, um we are also building a research side of this to advance the practice overall and we'll work with biioarma companies and diagnostic companies um on that side of it as well because everybody wants to figure out how to get to end of one medicine um because in cancer you know that's truly what what you need. And uh last lastly how are you doing? Are you uh I'm doing great. I mean, I'm I'm

actually I mean, I did all these graphs and charts projecting my treatment response, and now that I'm on um the the right uh regimen for me, I'm down to a level where I've not getting any more damage. I mean, I'm down to where like I but but now what I need to do is keep it that way and to kind of rebuild the healthy immune system. So, um you know, I I think I'm going to be um okay, but six was five months ago. Um you know, it was uh it looked quite different. Uh but I'm I'm feeling pretty good about it

now. I feel like I've got a handle on it. Um and you know, this is what's different. When I was doing chronic care, remote patient monitoring, I was, you know, it was always other people's problems, but our our country needs this, otherwise we're going to go bankrupt. Well, we we still haven't fixed that part of the problem, but now it's like, wow, I I need this. I need this. Yeah. My my you know, it's definitely changes the point of view when it's when when you're in the in in the middle of it.

And uh you know it makes me really I I'd say much much better with the product because I am customer number one. Fantastic. Well, Steve, it's great to see you. It's great that you're doing well and what a fabulous and fascinating uh uh journey journey you're on with Cure Wise. I've been talking with Steve Brown, digital health OG from god, three decades ago and now running Q- wise, which you got a chance to see and hopefully you'll be able to come back in a few months and show us how you've

advanced and you know when the company's really off the ground. But thanks for taking time with me today. Well, definitely great to be here and great to be back in healthcare after uh taking a over a decade hiatus from from healthcare. It's actually a really really exciting time to be in healthcare because we're on the cusp of major advancements.