Title: Ten Ten Ten - Trying to radically fix health care in the US
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zo_qRMirXWI
Language: en
Duration: 45:02
Upload Date: Feb 12, 2026

Transcription:

Hi, Matthew Hul with the healthcare blog   here. TCB spotlight on uh a new   organization called 101010. And I have   with me the folks running it, Vaf Ramen   and TJ Tedesco. And uh the goal here if   I'm understanding this correctly for 10   10 is in 10 years to get the US into the   top 10 in health outcome metrics and yet   have it only spend 10% of the GDP on   healthcare whereas at the moment I think   we are 48th or 27th or some low number   in health outcomes and we spend 18% of   the GDP on healthcare and we haven't   spent 10% since the 80s maybe the 70s I   don't   So gent um ostensively you're both nuts.   So why don't why don't why don't you   explain why you've started doing this   and I would preface that in saying that   both of you were involved with uh have   done a lot of healthcare over the years   and both of you involved with a company

  called Vivo which did uh specialty drug   uh cost savings essentially run by prim   but uh uh why don't we start so which   one of you wants to start explain what   what 1010 is is aiming to do beyond my   little sandbar there   >> okay so I'll go first the US health   system is characterized by bad results   and it is unaffordable.

 We want to fix   the system. We want to heal the country   and we have several ways of doing that.   And you're absolutely right. Our rating   of the US health system compared to 183   different countries in the world that we   track is we're number 48. So the   outcomes are well below our peer   countries and it doesn't match the   spending.

 Out of 183 countries, we spend   the second largest amount of our GDP on   healthcare at   >> Hang on a second. Who who beat us?   >> Afghanistan   at 19%.   >> How do they have any idea what   Afghanistan spent on healthcare?   >> Go figure. I mean, and if you take a   look at the top 10 countries, you know,   the Switzerland's, the   uh uh Korea,   uh Taiwan, uh Australia, they're all   examples of countries in the top 10.

  They you average them out, they spend on   average, the top 10 for outcomes in the   world spend uh 9.5%. We are almost   double of of what what they are. And   even worse, the United States by any   metric is the leader in innovation. So   you add up best innovation in the world.   We spend almost the most in the world   and yet our outcomes lag so badly.

  >> So TJ, that is not a surprise to one   who's been following healthcare for a   long time. I literally I'm writing and   I've just finished. I'm working on an   article now for Emily Peters at Uncom   Bold. She's going to do a book called   Money Remaking Healthcare. Money Recube   Medicine.

 She did a book called money uh   she did a book which I did not   contribute to but she sent me very   kindly called artists remaking medicine   and now she's doing money remaking   medicine because apparently art and   money interact somehow. I don't know. I   wrote this chapter which basically   looked at this whole thing and went   great.

 We've been spending this ton of   money forever and it's not true. If you   look at the amount of money we spend, if   you spend at not 10% but 12%, which is   easier for the math because we're doing   5 a.5 trillion at the moment, you'd save   about and you spend at that rate rather   than the 18% we're spending at you'd   save about $2 trillion, which is kind of   double what we spend on defense, double   what we spend on K through 12 education,   uh somewhere between five and 10 times,   depending on who you believe, how much   we just gave rich people in the Trump   tax cuts, you know. So, so um there's   clearly you know a lot of money   available if we could get down but then   you know forever health care costs have   gone up and those other countries   mentioned health care costs have gone up   their own they used to spend five six 7%   of GDP and now they're spending 9 10 I   think the Swiss are spending 12 or 13   you know so and the Afghanistan clearly   that may not be planned they're spending   more than us um but I I I guess the   question is it's been an intractable   problem we've had the Affordable Care

  Act, which I guess the price, you know,   health care has stayed at 18% of GDP   roughly since then, so maybe it kind of   worked. Maybe you could argue. Um, but   it certainly isn't affordable in terms   of people are paying it. We're all   trying to pass the buck around it.   There's a fight right now about   subsidies over the ACA.

 Obviously, we   have these Medicaid cuts coming up.   Obviously, you know, there are real   issues from healthcare costing this   much. But why do you think you can do   anything about it?   >> Mute.   >> Unmute yourself.   >> So, if I might step back just a tiny   bit.   >> Sorry.   >> Um the um   why does health care costs increase   every year? I think someone needs to ask   that question.

  And most of the time when someone   answers that question they talk about   consolidation, insurers know doing all   this stuff and you know the the   government doing this or they blame one   institution or the other. But there is   something very fundamental about health   care that makes health care always   inflationary   and and that   is that well the value of health is not   defined right um because after a person   dies or after a person loses a limb or   something like that there is no   opportunity cost there right so you   could potentially spend unlimited money   on health if you had unlimited money. So   what is the limit on how much you can   spend on health? And that limit is   dependent on how much you can afford.

  And so one of the things that we're   we're doing at 101010 with respect to   putting in this this northstar right is   to say no nope we're going to make a a   affordability limit as to how much we   can spend on health and then make   decisions based on that allocate based   on that because right now what we're   having is mainly an allocation problem   right so if you look at um new uh   therapies that are being created right   it's for a lot of the most expensive   therapies are being made for the last   year of life in oncology for example   right metastatic disease stage 4   maintenance oncology therapies that's   where a lot of the researches is that   really where we want to be spending our   money rather than on public health   programs that improve everyone's health   you know um we need to really make those   kinds of decisions as a society to say   hey this is what we want to spend money   on right now versus you know versus   somewhere

  Now, one of the things that we want to   do at 1010 is to um highlight those   solutions that do exist right now um   that increase outcomes and decrease   overall costs. You don't need to spend,   you know, millions of dollars to   um to improve people's health, right?   You could actually save money and   improve outcomes.

 And we've been part of   startups that do that. It's not just   Vivo. I was part of KAM as well in the   past which is bundle payment startup in   in the surgical space. Um and so there's   plenty of ways to to reverse cost trends   in the US and those solutions exist. And   so our our our   goal as a as a company as a nonprofit is   to to highlight and push these solutions   so that they can they can succeed and   they can actually change the marketplace   because right now they're not   succeeding.

 They're not changing the   healthare system.   >> So, let me let me before we go into like   what might work or what might make a   difference, um, let me argue a little   bit with you politically about about   this and and   big picture, I'm definitely I think we   spend way too much money on healthcare   and we get a terrible I'm with you.

 We   get terrible results out of it. But, um,   I've never heard a politician stand up   and say, "Now, everyone complains health   care premiums are unaffordable. Uh, you   know, cost of healthare services is too   much. People don't want to go to the   emergency room because it's too   expensive.

 But no one is telling no one   is is stands up and says we are spending   18% and we should spend 9 and a half or   12 or 10.   >> Yes.   >> That doesn't seem to be you. No. And   then if you actually go, you know, if   you if you find somebody who is being   denied some potentially life-saving   therapy towards end life or a transplant   or whatever, you know, by the Sigas or   the Etners, you'll see massive campaigns   on LinkedIn about how terrible it is   that the these insurance companies are   cutting people off and, you know, I I   have no trouble with insurance   companies. I think they should be   abolished. But but you know, you don't   you're not seeing a ground sort of   people going, "Well, we are a very poor   country yet we're spending too much   money on healthcare." Most people go,   "This is incredibly rich country. Why   can't everybody have healthcare the way   you know the platinum level that members   of Congress have or what have you?"   don't I don't seem to you know now I   don't think people want to pay out of   pocket for it and maybe there is still   cognitive dissonance about how they're   paying for it out of taxes or the

  deficit as it happens to be or out of   how much their employees are paying and   how much wages therefore going but to me   politically I don't see a big movement   right now saying we are spending too   much as a nation I'm seeing that people   say this costs me too much I wish   somebody else would pay but I don't see   the the big picture issue   Why do you think people would want to   get behind lowering the 18 down to 10 or   12 or nine and a half, whatever it is?   >> So, you've gone into a very Oh, go   ahead, TJ.   >> Yeah, that's that's really that that is   a profound question and I think the   answer is simple. We are used to   spending other people's money in the   United States in healthcare. So, you   see,   >> like everybody else, we spend a lot more   of our own money.   >> Well, that's true. But but you know   consider the uh the advertising uh   challenge that we have in this in this   country. Um you can't turn on a sports   game without getting uh plummeted with

  wi with with um advertisements for   things that you didn't know. So how in   the world does that make any sense? And   is they always end up with and ask us   how you can get it for $5   uh per month. Well, the one thing that   these advertisers are not saying is,   "Yeah, it's we can get it down to $5 per   month for you, but your plan might spend   $100,000, $200,000, $700,000, and none   of that is ever included.

" So it's very   easy when you spend other people's money   and uh and we have u all of the impetus   behind um behind us to not question the   uh the the the doctor or even the   patient who goes and says hey doc uh I'd   like to you know I'd like to consider   this particular drug um I saw it   advertised on TV and that patient knows   that if they can't get the doctor to   agree to the prescriptions just go down   the road to another one.

 So you're the   whole concept comes to us spending other   people's money. Yes, you're right,   Matthew. There is a huge affordability   problem. High deductible plans are   causing major headaches. Um yeah, I was   just at a lunch yesterday and a   physician told me that 75% of his   scripts are not followed. Well, that's a   real that's a really big problem in   terms of uh improving health outcomes.

  But but I'm still at a point where I   don't fear an outcry in the US concerned   about spending other people's money. I   don't hear an outcome of saying that 18%   is too high or 20% you know that any   particular number of GDP is too high. I   hear an outcome saying that I cannot you   know when I I can't afford to go and   doctor when I go to the emergency room   it cost me $5,000 my insurance didn't   cover it or whatever.

 I I people want   that part fixed. Absolutely no question.   I know I'm not sure there's there's a I   mean and I have good reason I have a lot   of ideas for how we do get from 18%   lower but I'm not sure politically I'm   hearing an outcry saying that you know   say I like the idea of getting in 10% of   top 10% of outcomes yes we should get   more for our money absolutely we should   get have better health outcomes there   are ways to get there I'm not sure I'm   hearing people want this actually saying   that 18% is way too much other than the   few of us policy wonks who know that   it's you know nearly double what other   countries are spending. Um, and so if   you're going to launch a campaign around   this, h how other than saying, well, you   know, you selfish people are spending   other people's money money and you   shouldn't be getting that $100,000, you   know, cancer drug because it's not going   to keep you alive any longer than if you   just, you know, went with the cheaper   one. Other than that, I'm I'm wor   wondering what your statement is as to

  why people should be interested in   lowering the overall cost of healthcare.   So let me let me let me I I I by the way   I generally hate using analogies because   I feel it's a poor argument way but in   this case I think it it it it kind of   works okay um say we have unlimited   money okay and we have   even a normal product call it cars right   and everyone has unlimited money and   they can spend as much as they want   are we ever going to get good value on   the cars that we buy, right? At some   point in order to drive value, you have   to set an affordability limit. You have   to because otherwise there is no   scarcity. If you do not create if you do   not create or set scarcity, you cannot   incentivize value. And that's why we're   on we're we're trying to be more on the

  demand side because we have to demand   better as consumers, as employers, as   you know, as purchasers. By demanding   better, by having better information,   we can move things towards value because   by we were talk you're talking about the   last year of life, you know, cancer care   and know all of this stuff.

 Right? Now,   here's the thing. It's not that that   cancer drug only improves lives by 6   months. It's that that cancer drug that   improves life by 6 months costs $100,000   per year. It's the price that's the   problem, right? That's why we're not   getting value. And unless you create   that scarcity mindset to say that look,   if we spend $100,000 per year on a   cancer drug that barely improves   survival by 6 months,   right? Is that something that is that   the price that we should be paying for   that cancer drug? Well, we we can't   answer that unless you have an   affordability limit. And that's the   reason that people need should support   this initiative and support the idea.   Now, does that mean we can get down to   10%. Maybe not. Germany is at 14, right?   Uh UK doesn't even got down to 10%. So   um but we're we're coming down at the

  10% level because we believe that we   need to set that limit and say hey we   need to set a limit and then get to um   demanding better demanding better value.   >> So so I'm I'm   uh I agree on the value side of things.   Um my concern is that I it's very easy   for me to for me for a drug company for   a doctor for a patient group to trot out   somebody who is about to die and only if   you gave them this drug will they might   stay alive and it's very hard to say you   know we've been very poor making I think   the only argument to say is that if we   spent that money somewhere else um you   know we would get a better societal   return and that that gets you to the   unidentified life or maybe if we were   spending more money on preschools and   made them free we would actually raise   overall health status because we know   that's that actually would work. But,   you know, it's hard to get there. And I   I I'm still struggling with the idea   that there's a viable political   political campaign around this. But

  let's assume there is. Um could I could   I just jump?   >> Yeah. Go ahead, TJ.   >> Matthew, so uh you are you are correct.   You know, where is the   >> That's usually the case by THE WAY. SO   GET USED to it.   >> Thank you for clearing that up. But so   you so the the question of where is the   ground? Well, so I I spent the early   part of my career uh as a marketer, you   know, in focus groups, things like that.

  The one thing that you never get in a   focus group is somebody saying, "Hey, I   want this innovation out of here because   people can't conceptualize that." Think   of uh of another moonshot that happened   in the 1930s, social security. The were   people clamoring for the concept that   ended up becoming social security? I   don't think so.

 Uh because it beca it   started as a vision and then now we   can't live without it. and you know just   tell a politician that you know you you   cannot live without social security. We   get health care costs under control uh   and 10 let's just assume for argument   sake 101010 succeeds in our in our   mission.

 Well then we we're never going   to go back you know the the guard rails   will be in place and this country is   going to benefit.   >> All right. Uh agreed. I think there's a,   you know, and and clearly it's it's   there's a lack of understanding now   about, I think, particularly what, you   know, what what alternative spending   could be and, you know, what we could be   doing with the money.

 Um, obviously a   wrenching transition we'd have to go   through to get there. But let's talk   about, you know, practicalities. Um,   there are various ways you could do it.   Every other country has done it by   basically saying, we're going to create   a centralized budget for how much we   spend on healthcare. and the   government's going to manage that and   that's how we're going to keep healthare   costs down.

 And by the way, they're all   going up in those other countries too.   They're just, you know, they're not it's   not going up. They just haven't gone up   as fast as us because, you know, in most   of them, the finance minister has to the   health minister has to look at the   finance minister say, "Okay, you know,   well, I want to spend more on   healthcare.

" And the finance says, "You   want to put taxes up? You know, how are   we going to sell that to the public?"   And, you know, then we you end up with a   with a balanced uh a balanced thing. And   sometimes you have situations like in   the UK when Tony Blair came in and said,   you know, we're not spending enough on   healthcare, which is why it went from   seven to, you know, 10 or whatever,   whatever they they're spending in the UK   now.

 But um what are the ways you think   we can get to 10% in the US given the   state of play that we have in our   political system and the extremely   rapacious demands of the people selling   those 100,000 cancer drugs or the uh   hospitals requiring uh you know trying   to keep that cardiac calath lab full and   uh etc etc. No shortage of people   looking to take money out of the   healthare system on the on the value   creation side as the venture capitalists   call it.

  So you know um I'll I'll answer this by   um saying that I don't like   characterizing other nations healthare   systems under one under one roof. There   are many many different obviously you   know health systems out there um that uh   do things differently. Now there may   there may be a centralized budget and   some other other folks actually have   premiums.

 So in Switzerland has   premiums. Um the difference for example   in Switzerland is the government has   come in and said okay we're going to set   hospital costs at a certain amount.   We're going to uh we're going to ensure   that all the all the individual insurers   are regulated as utilities right   essentially um and they're uh they're   paid based on you know the   administrative efficiency right now.

  Then you have NHS where they control the   means of production, they control the   means of finance, right? Everything is   controlled. So there there's actually a   big spectrum of solutions that are   possible in the US healthcare system.   Now that said, let's talk about one   particular solution since you asked,   right? Um   we talked about a little little bit ago   about um health.

 You could potentially   spend an unlimited amount of money on   health. There are many other things that   you could potentially spend unlimited   money on. Water, food, power, even your   highways, transportation, right? What's   what's uh what's the um you know common   thread between all of these things? They   are regulated as utilities, right? Um   but they're regulated in different ways.

  I mean food for example, a a lot of it   is still a free market, right? But there   is a significant amount of regulation   over the infrastructure of how food is   delivered and how food is priced and and   stuff like that. So again there's a   spectrum of solutions there. But I think   the number one thing is to come down and   say no healthcare is basic   infrastructure   for people to do their work for the   economy to survive and for the economy   to function.

 as once we understand that   as a society that it is not a good that   is sold like a car right it's a it's a   it's a piece of essential infrastructure   for the United States once we come down   on that then we start thinking in the   right way right and then um and then we   can start like regulating it   appropriately and then and doing the   right thing right because we can't go   around and say oh healthcare is a free   market I mean it isn't a free market now   right and We can't go around saying,   "Oh, we're being very innovative." Well,   I don't know. Those innovations are not   helping us get better outcomes, right?   So, are we being innovative? I don't   know. So, it's it's a question of   allocation of resources. It's also a   question like we talked about before of   creating that scarcity and then creating   that mindset that no, healthcare is an   absolute requirement for people to go to   work and be productive members of   society.

  So you um we've mentioned two countries   so far, Switzerland and the UK. The the   world rank for Switzerland is number 10   in terms of outcomes and they spend   11.5% of their GDP. The UK uh is ranked   number 30 and they spent 9.9%. The   United States number 48 at nearly double   at 18.5%. Those are the numbers.

  >> Okay. Uh I I understand the 1010 uh   idea. Um I I guess the my my sort of   follow-up question is politically we   have really three major views on   healthcare. One is bunch of lefties like   me who go this is stupid. It's clearly   should be government government   government uh regulated government   controlled and and uh you know I I have   my own ideas about how you should   allocate money between primary care and   hospital care but but in the end we need   a fixed budget and not to not spend this   amount of money and we should be you   know using our using using the   government's incentives levers to do   more primary care and public health and   less expensive cancer care for for for   the nearly dead and all that kind of   stuff.   The second bunch is over on the right   and they believe that if we had just had   transparency of pricing and transparency   of of of understanding what's going on   in the system, consumers somehow would   figure it all out. And this is kind of

  Trump saying now I want to give money to   people, not to insurance companies. And   you know, we have these insurance   companies and they haven't done a great   job at lowering prices clearly. So like   lowering costs overall and in fact you   know their noses are pretty well in the   trough as is as being clear for the when   prices go up.

 So, you know, but and this   group thinks that you sort of   libertarian right thinks that we should   do it on the KO type stuff. We should do   it on on on pricing and transparency.   And then both of those are kind of   politically fringe views. Haven't really   have got very far politically. In the   middle, we have a whole bunch of we have   a Congress which you know looks around   it congressional district and sees the   biggest employer as a big local   hospital.

 uh and they and very   influential big trade group trade groups   AMA, AHA, Pharma   etc etc right all of whom spent a lot of   money on lobbying and are very happy   that you know to basically keep the   system more or less going as it is yes   one year you might find that Medicare   adage plans like this year are getting   you're getting hit a little bit but but   they've just had 20 years of feeding you   know feeding massively well at the   trough   How do we get the politics of this to   change so that whatever the solutions   are, maybe they are practical solutions   now folks like Arnold Ventures who been   pushing the, you know, massive 1%   improvements. How do you how do you get   this to to to to become a sort of to   become a political thing? How do you get   from 1010 being a nice idea?   >> So, so let me take a crack let me let me   take a crack at that. Um, first of all,   I do want to start out by saying that

  101010 is fiercely nonpartisan. And this   is the reason why we are nonpartisan. It   is because the people in red America, in   blue America to use those labels. Uh,   nobody cares if uh I if uh if if nobody   cares except for hey wait a second I am   paying too much and I'm not getting the   benefit that I should be getting.

 It is   exactly the same. The concerns are the   same all across this country. 1010 is   fiercely non-partisan and that's really   the the opening self in terms of   changing the the political attitude.   That's not our That's not our Bailey   Wick. That's not our our our goal. It is   what it is.

 However, I will say that at   some point if a uh 1010 playbook in a   particular area happens to slide across   somebody's desk in Washington and uh and   uh we uh catch the attention of of uh   the president and he thinks it's a good   idea even if it may one day. It doesn't   it it it really doesn't matter if uh it   it it doesn't matter where the where the   credit goes.

 It's not going to be 101010   or or Bargov or TJ. If if it makes a   difference, that's what we care about.   And then it's possible that that uh it   could become a discussion point on   Capitol Hill. If it does, that would be   great. Uh there already is a lot of   movement on on there. In fact, in just   yesterday's news, the PBM legislation,   it's high time for that.

 And it's also a   a point where uh the people who Barov   and I have been working with are now   being quoted in this. Anthony or uh   Antonio Siaka was all over the New York   Times article yesterday and we've got   Elizabeth Mitchell uh all over that same   article. I mean this this is happening.   The time to strike is now.   >> Okay. So let's let's go a layer deeper.

  I mean one of we talked about sort of   consciousness change around you know uh   end of life spending on cancer care and   that kind of stuff. There lots of other   areas where we spend a lot of money and   don't move those big outcome numbers.   Obviously some areas where we spend a   decent amount of money and don't do a   great job like childhood mortality and   maternal mortality which you know um   especially among among black Americans   and and others don't there are some   really bad numbers out there. Um and so   I guess the qu my my question is you're   looking at moving on the cost side and   the b and the outcome side. What would   you what are you actually going to start   proposing? what you know if you have a   playbook what is the playbook gonna   start saying other than you know what I   would call relatively minor PBM changes   but we'll see if they maybe they're   major but uh but uh I you know they   don't look to me like they're going to   move the needle from 18% to 10 or even   to 18 from 18 and a half to 18 but maybe   they will but uh what's the playbook

  >> so 1010 mainly works right now on the   demand side of things right we need to   demand better by changing the demand   pattern By changing that pattern, we can   change what is supplied in the industry   as well because people are only going to   make the products that people demand uh   where the market is.

 Investors are going   to invest where the market is.   Politicians are going to do what the   voters want, what the companies want,   right? Um and uh and and the like I   said, the solutions out there exist,   right? TJ and I worked at one, right? I   worked at CARAM that was then that's   another really great solution for   employers but none of them are changing   the healthcare industry because large   employers mid-market employers they're   not making the decision to switch off   from the large insurers and the PBMs the   alternatives exist but they're not using   them right so the question is what are   the barriers right and how do we get rid   of them so if you think about like in a   general playbook it is to remove the   barriers so that the free market can   operate properly   So say more what what you know because   uh I would pick the example of say Dave   Chase and Hal Rosetta who've been   running around the country for basically

  a decade now saying hey look what   happened in Orlando the Rosen hotels you   know reduced cost by 30% and sent all of   their sent all of their uh young   employees kids to college or whatever   you know what they with the money they   saved they they did great stuff and they   improved lower costs improve their   outcomes yada yada yada you know and   there are a bunch of examples of that   But and then as you said there are there   are alternatives to the big three PBMs   but as you said very it's been very hard   for them to enter the market and scale   for a bunch of reasons and maybe it's   just inertia maybe it's you know maybe   it's unfair competition who knows what   it is   >> how how do we actually do that because   that's the employer side and then on the   government side we have to do something   similar and and have you know the big   the big federal program offer Medicare   and Medicaid   figure out how to how to spend less   money. So how do we actually get from   here to that?   >> So the Rosen Hotels that is uh that

  organization has been very publicly open   to uh to in innovation and they have   delivered on it. There are other   organizations and it really starts at   the at the leadership level at you know   when you're talking about self-insured   employers there are certain employers   that have the leadership that is   conducive to this and those are the ones   that have experienced the the benefits.

  Um there is a lot of optimism, although   sometimes it's tempered, that um that   that these uh fiduciary uh lawsuits that   have that have happened over the last   couple of years are eventually going to   land. Nothing has landed yet, but it's a   matter of time when a fiduciary lands uh   um lawsuit lands and uh the executives   that made the bad purchasing decisions   knowingly are paying the price.

 That   will happen and that will that will   change behavior when people are   accountable. uh right now it is uh even   even the the the leadership at these   organizations there isn't accountability   although the threat of that has changed   uh significantly over the past 18 months   say   >> uh the other thing we need to also talk   about is is the sales pipelines right   where where are these where do people   get advice right they get advice from   consultants from brokers from all of   these other you know things and thing is   that these middlemen are actually a lot   of them are deeply deeply conflicted So   it's also about choosing the right   people to listen to, right? And so we   want to be that person that people   listen to as well.   >> Okay. Um I I so as a combination, you   know, potentially of of lawsuits and   publicity and understanding and   education um is part of is part of the

  way to go. Um what what is 1010 going to   actively do, you know, to to to promote   your mission? A lot of this stuff is   kind of happening in the e in the ether   anyway. Um there's a lot of discussion   about this on LinkedIn. We can read   Chris Deacon's comments, you know, every   day about finding yet more ways that   we're being screwed by health systems   and and health insurance and how they go   as as a taxpayer, let alone as an   employer.

 Um you know, you can imagine   all this stuff eventually the dam the   dam might break. What is 1010   specifically going to do uh as you I   mean you guys are just getting going but   as you get going what are the actual   things you anticipate the programs the   projects to actually like push the   what's the analogy to like take the   fingers out of the dyke I don't know   break down the break down the top of the   dams I don't know what I'm running out   of analogies but you know what I mean to   to get things going   >> um I can go into it if you like GTJ. Um   uh so uh we we we spent a lot of this uh   this conversation talking about   Northstar you know um and uh and things   but we also need to understand that all   that that takes a bunch of measurement   right so we need to ensure that we're   measuring properly so that we know   whether we're moving in the right   direction or not. Um that's number one.

  Number two, um we have a um we have a   certification program uh that uh we have   started and again you know part of this   has to do with okay what can we do at   our level of scale what can we do at   larger level of scale right so what can   we do at our level of scale right now um   so what the certification program   basically uh does is to say that uh if   there is a solution out there whether   it's a policy proposal or whether it's a   digital health product right um that uh   company um or that policy maker can come   to us for um looking at the data   associated with it. We have two we have   three different levels of certification.   We have provisional certification   um uh full certification and exemplary   right and the idea is that these   solutions need to work well for the   American people in terms of improving   outcomes and decreasing cost. Um that   means that we're looking at the data

  whether it's a model or whether it's   actual data and then um and then   certifying it that way. And the idea   behind that again um talking about what   what we were talking about before is to   is to change that demand pattern right   to say that no we're only going to buy   solutions that work for the American   people and not just for individual   stakeholders.

 Um and you know that like   like you pointed at before it's uphill   battle right but um it is something that   we're that we have running right now um   that we're doing um and TJ can talk   about a couple of other initiatives that   we're thinking about as well.   >> So the uh tracking that uh and the   measurement that Barov is referring to   has a name and that's the 101010 index.

  We are building the index. It's on our   website right now. Uh it's manual. We we   do need more resources before we can   build all the pipelines, the feeds, the   API feeds and then we broaden the   resources so that there will be drill   downs but we have a vision for for the   tracking the measurement component.

 So   Bargo mentioned certification uh that is   think of think of um again to use an   analogy the big box stores for   appliances. If you go to buy a   refrigerator and all things equal, size,   you know, functionality are price are   all the same and one has an Energy Star   rating of 65 and another has an Energy   Star rating of 85.

 There's no question   you just purchase the 85. You don't even   think about it. That's that they that   has been successful. And we want to do   the same thing with our certification   program as well. We want to certify   things that work across two dimensions.   Does it uh improve outcomes? Does it   lower costs? It it it's simple.

 The one   thing I do want to point out, there are   there are other uh certifying rating   groups out there that do a really good   job. The Leaprog Group uh is we have no   intention of certifying hospitals   because it's being done very well right   now. Uh Iser does a great job at valuing   uh drug therapies.

 We're not going to be   uh doing that. That's not on our our our   road map right now. Um uh so we're not   going to be duplicative, but the index   we we still we have we have a grand   vision. We want to be a go-to source.   People need information uh on it. And   you know where where the United States   stands, we want to be a go-to source for   employers, for reporters, uh and and you   name it.

 Another thing that we're doing   in terms of building uh political   capital, if you will, we have a 101010   uh pledge and it's very simple. It is   common sense. It is we the American   people demand better. And we want a   million people to sign that pledge. Why?   Because if we have that that those   people who sign the pledge, well, guess   what? We now have uh a voice on the   hill.

 And um we have a fourth uh plank   which is uh corporate partnerships as   well. That is as it sounds.   >> All right. So, you've got uh I like that   certification, the pledge, a bunch of   initiatives rolling. You're early on. Uh   it's you only announced this a couple of   weeks back. Um tell tell me where you   are now and how you're going to get   organizationally from, you know, the two   of you and having a nice chat with me   and having good ideas to uh to making   this a force.

  >> Okay. So we are looking for our early   certification product candidates. It   could be a healthcare product. It could   be a healthcare uh procedure. It could   be a service. Uh it even could be a   policy where we will we will um we will   certify those. We have the framework all   built out. It's published.

 The framework   is published on our our website. Anybody   can go download that and see if um they   would like to be an early candidate.   There is a significant cost to   certification but as we are developing   our methodologies and making sure that   they work we are waving our costs for a   limited amount of time.

 So that's what   we're doing there. Um on the index we   are committed to doing it manually until   we uh get more scale and we hire uh um   you know uh computer programmers data   people who can help build the the   pipelines for us.   And the pledge is active now. People can   sign that pledge now. 101010.org   uh I think is signed the pledge with   some hyphens in there.

  >> All right. Go to 101010.org. This is t   n.   >> Thank you. Yes.   >> Not 1010 which makes sure you could get   a website for that. Fantastic.   >> You're on mute.   >> Um there is one thing that we haven't   mentioned quite yet. um uh is uh that we   are building a large advisory board and   very diverse of advisory board across   the um across the industry and this is   part of building platform credibility   and um and network right um and early on   for for someone like us that's that's   know one of the most important things   most important uh things that we're   doing and part of it is also you know   with uh with this power we can create   playbooks and actually get them used by   people um so that uh you know again   we're changing that uh demand side of   the equation um so that the supply gets   better right

  >> um go ahead   >> no finish bar   >> yeah so that's uh um so that's why   that's one thing that we haven't   emphasized quite yet but uh we have a   large advisory board now we're we're   looking for more people to help us   >> so let me tell a a story around the   advisor advisory board. Um I was talking   with a childhood friend of mine um and   uh he has uh become a frontline person   on the fight against cancer.

 So if you   take a look at the moonshot, you know,   cure cancer and that has been   characterized as a moonshot at least   under the Obama administration. Um   um I asked my childhood friend what how   would you rate your   impact on uh on on the cure of cancer   and going now keep in mind uh he and I   um were paddling around together uh is   starting around age seven.

 So we went he   defaulted for his answer right back to   to our beginnings. Well, let me answer   it in a uh in a um term that we both   understand. Superheroes. So, if you   waved a magic wand and I never existed,   would cancer be cured on the same day   uh with me not in the picture?   Unfortunately, the answer is probably   yes.

 uh my impact is there but it's   small and I don't think me by myself   would impact the day that uh cancer is   cured. However, if you have if you ask a   different question, if you wave the wand   and 200 people who I collaborate with   over my career, we're all gone. There is   no way that this gets cured within this   time frame.

 Now take a look at the um   the big hairy audacious goal that Bargov   and I are in are are leading right now.   Uh   fixing the US health system and it is it   is uh no smaller than that. Um the same   type of thing that the two of us even   though we have through our affiliations   with other companies extracted tens of   millions of dollars out of the US health   system gone. It's completely gone.

 Let   me give you an example. Uh, you know, a   self-insured employer with 5,000   employees, 10,000 lives might spend $10   million on uh on specialty drugs. Well,   we have been part of that reduction uh   by carving out specialty drugs. uh that   $10 million spend on average, this is   across uh all of our customers across uh   the years, on average is 35% reduction   in costs.

 So uh that $10 million   specialty drug spend after a year would   be down to 6.5 million. That is $3.5   million boom gone extracted out of out   of the US health system. Uh so back to   my my uh childhood friend, you know, he   that number 200 rings true for us as   well. If you segment all of the areas of   of a $5.

6 trillion health, you know, um   mega industry and which is where we are.   Um   it's about 200. That's that's the right   number. It's about 200 adviserss that we   need advice so we can write playbooks   and then publish that and work toward   that and and set the set the country.   So, so when Bargo brings up our advisory   board, it's a very very important piece   of u of what we do.

 We need these we   need these leaders to help us and then   everything that we do is co-published   with 101010 but the advisor's name comes   first. So, we are looking for experts in   their field. We already have we're up   over 20 at this point. So, call it 10%   of the way there.   All right. Fantastic. So, you know, I   I've given you guys a hard time because   what you're trying to do is is uh as you   said, it is it is audacious and and very   very difficult and it's a big goal, but   it's a great goal and we certainly need   to improve our outcomes. We certainly   need to uh improve our affordability.   So, I'm wishing you all the best as   101010 goes forward. Um and uh I'm   hoping that you know maybe in 10 years   if you know if I'm still going, we can   come back and celebrate some progress   here. We'll see. It's a date.   >> It's a date. All right. I'm doing with   TJ Tedesco and Barav Raman. They are the   founders of 101010. As you've heard, a   new organization dedicated to getting   health care costs down to 10% of GDP and

  getting the US in the top 10% of health   outcomes within 10 years.   Thanks for your time. Thank you so much.


