Title: THCB Gang Special -- The Odyssey of Women’s Health Journeying into the Midterms
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RVs11h5UmnQ
Language: en
Duration: 00:36:28
Upload Date: Sep 28, 2026

Transcription:

Hello to everyone and welcome to a  special episode of Matthew Holtz the  healthc care blog gang. My name is  Audrey Man Cronin. I'm a communications  advisor in healthcare and technology and  a passionate women's health advocate.  I'm so pleased to be joined today by a  powerhouse of women healthcare leaders.  But before we start, a big thank you to  Matthew Hol, who in a rare tender moment  offered to have me be the Rosie  O'Donnell to his Jimmy Kimmel.

Today's panel is made up of thought  leaders in women's healthc care policy,  investment, and life sciences and  medicine. But what we all have in common  is that that we are all part of Women's  Health Advocates, the nation's only  bipartisan lobbying organization that  advocates at the federal and state level  to advance women's health head to toe.

The 2026 midterm elections are upon us.  We all are reading about it. It's uh  it's here. The current split of the  Congress is 2000 2000 218 Republicans,  including one independent and 212  Democrats. State by state, who sits in  Congress matters and matters profoundly  to women's health. This is why we're  here.

By now, most understand that women  make up 51% of the United States's  population. Yet women's health remains  underfunded, underresarched, and  overlooked.  Like Odysius in the Odyssey, yes, I'm  going there. We are on a journey. This  one to overcome obstacles and fragmented  factions with advocacy and education  that is proven to have the power to  influence policy change, shape women's  health, and save lives.

Today we will talk about these  obstacles, opportunities, and what we  can expect with the results of the  midterm elections and women's health  going forward.  Our panel today includes Liz Powell, Dr.  Elizabeth Garner, and Dr. Mitsy  Crockover. And I would love for you to  introduce yourselves. Liz, would you  like to go first?  Sure, happy to. Thanks so much.

Liz  Powell. I'm the founder and head of both  GDG Consulting, a labing firm in  Washington, and Women's Health  Advocates, which we just launched in  February of 2025.  Um, and I'm a former Capitol Hill  staffer.  Beth, want me to go next? Sure. Yes. Hi,  Beth Garner. I'm a women's health  physician by training, an OB/GYN, and a  Gonoconcologist.

Um I jumped into industry though about  20 years ago um to uh you know help  women's uh uh developing therapies for  women. Um I have all all uh in that uh  space uh been in women's health all that  time and I'm now currently uh CEO of SEN  Therapeutics. We're developing therapies  for PMOS.  Great Mitsy.  Thank you.  Great to go on this odyssey with all you  lovely women.

Um, real excited about  that. Um, I am Mitsy Crockover. I'm an  internist by training and previous  practice. Was the former founding  medical director of the Iris Caner UCLA  Women's Health Center and then went on  to Yumana as vice president of women's  health and now I'm very immersed in the  innovation space because we need more  solutions for women's health.

So I am  currently the director of women's health  innovation at the ASU College of Health  Solutions, co-founder of FEMT a creating  a hub for women's health innovation here  in the state of Arizona. I am literally  wanting to be invested in women's  health. So I am an managing director at  Golden Seeds, an angel investment  organization and CEO of women centered  which is a media and women's health  strategy company.

Wow,  wonderful to have you all. So Liz, I'd  love to start with you. Can you tell us  more about why you started Women's  Health Advocates and then secondarily as  a lobbyist in Washington DC, can you  share the women's health policy changes  that are being legislated today and that  are the most high stakes as well as the  role policy plays in innovation? So two  big questions.

Yeah, absolutely. So, um, most people  don't realize that women, uh, and people  of color were not required to be  included in clinical trials till 1993.  So, there have been huge gaps in data  in, uh, what informs medical decisionm  um, to this day. When a woman presents  in the ER related to a heart condition,  she's twice as likely to die after that  fact.

Uh, because we just don't have the  data. A lot of doctors aren't even  trained on on data, appropriate data on  women. And sex differences go down to  the cellular level. So as a lobbyist and  somebody who works in Washington, what I  started to see is uh instead of gaps  here or there is that there were  consistent gaps as a result of that uh  that needed to be addressed.

And so  whether it's under the the um inclusion  in clinical trials, uh research funding  for women's health, which is defined as  uh those conditions that solely  disproportionately and or differently  impact the health of women head to toe  over the lifespan. Um so more research  dollars and investment there. um or the  regulatory process and making sure that  new women's health innovations are able  to get through FDA to reimbursement.

 If  you're not reimbursed or have coverage,  then uh the innovation never reaches  patients. And finally, there's access.  You can have the greatest innovation in  the world, but if you're not reaching  rural America, for example, then we're  not really um being effective uh in  advancing health for women.

So, having a  greater understanding of all those gaps,  that is what um gave me the idea to  start Women's Health Advocates. And I'd  been teaming up with Mity and Beth for  years um addressing different gaps in  women's health. And we decided we needed  all of women's health head to toe to be  addressed through a lobbying  organization.

We are the only lobbying  organization that is educating,  advocating to close those gaps in  women's health head to toe over the  lifespan. And what's been amazing is we  organized the first ever women's health  Capitol Hill Day. You can see behind me  um all the smiling faces. Uh we've  brought people to Washington several  times now to do these hill days.

We've  done online events. We've done events  across the country, 25 at this point,  coast to coast and in between. And what  we were finding is that there's a huge  energy and interest in taking action and  better understanding these gaps and then  doing something about it. And how do we  do something about it? We got to  advocate. We got to use our voices.

And  we have to get out and vote. And this  year's midterms elections has going to  have is going to result in at least a  16% changeover in Congress. It'll be  more than that because there's about 21  toss up seats. So, there's going to be  big change. And if we can make women's  health a priority for candidates and  those who are in office, then we can  really shift the ground.

We can really  transform research, FDA approval  process, reimbursement, addressing all  these specific health conditions. So,  I'm very excited um what I'm seeing so  far across the country, all 50 states,  over 5,500 advocates, we are really  raising our voices and making a  difference.  Amazing. All right, B. Um, now I'd love  you to just tell us how you define  women's health and why this definition  is so important given today's climate  and the ongoing challenges for women and  the conditions we face as Liz talked  about at every stage of life.  Yeah, thanks so much. And you know, as  as Liz said, I mean, definitions are  always important, right? wherever you  are. And certainly when we're talking  about policy, right, and speaking to  members of Congress who are making  really serious decisions about our  health, um it's critical for us as  women's health advocates to ensure  policy makers understand, right, what

women's health actually is. So that's  that's really important for us. Um and  it's even more important in the current  climate as we have so much work to do to  ensure that women's health is top of  mind, right? Um, we now think about  women's health broadly, right? I think  um, Liz basically said that way more  than reproductive health, right? Or as  some of us call it, boobs and tubes.

We're not boobs and tubes, right? We are  way more than that. Women's health  really encompasses the full arc, right,  of a woman's life and the physical, the  mental, the emotional dimensions of our  lives from really from birth through  death. And then along that journey women  deal with a number of conditions right  that we now think about in three buckets  and these are the definitions that we  talk about.

So there there are  conditions that affect only women right  such as endometriosis as an example.  There are conditions that  disproportionately affect women, right?  Such as Alzheimer's and then conditions  that really different differentially or  differently affect women such as heart  disease. As you heard um from uh Liz, we  do have a better understanding I think  of women's health now um because we have  these demen uh these um conditions and  and that we really think about them now  in these three buckets.

But  unfortunately, I would say, you know,  we're just really far away from actually  addressing women's needs, no matter what  color or ethnicity they are, where they  live, how much income they have, etc.  And, you know, the disparities, as you  know, across the US and around the world  are enormous.

So, yes, um, you know, we  I think we're doing a great job in terms  of um, definitions and, you know,  getting to policy uh, people to really  understand. And this is really where as  as Liz has said already where advocacy  comes in.  Great. Great. Thank you for that. Yeah.  Mity, um you want to talk about policy  impact and what solutions get to market  for women and what can be done to  encourage the creation of legislation  that gets evidence-based specifically  evidence-based importantly  evidence-based products to market  faster.

Sure. And I just want to piggyback on  some of the things that Liz had talked  about. So when you look at the continuum  of innovation or solutions, um it's  really a pipeline if you will. It starts  with good research and then that good  research informs evidence-based  solutions. Those solutions need clinical  trials in order to prove their efficacy  or their outcomes and then they go  through a regulatory process if it's a  device, a diagnostic or a therapeutic.

And then it has to be adopted into the  health system and mostly it's only going  to do that if um somebody's paying for  it, covering it or reimbursing for it.  And then it has to be adopted into  clinical practice and that's by training  and awareness by the physicians  themselves. And in every area that I  just talked about, there is a policy  implication.

So, if we look at women's  health research, as Liz talked about, we  have a der of information because we  didn't really start including women um  and other underrepresented groups until  1993. So, we're behind the ball. Now,  two years ago, unfortunately, women's  health got conflated with DEI. And so  now we have researchers whose research  is being denied in terms of funding  because they either are um studying  women or they're studying they are  studying a woman's body parts and  they've had to be very creative in the  way that they've talked about it. But  it's really made an impact on the  research that is becoming available in  women's health. So we need to focus on  that. Second area is again these  innovators need support for their  innovations and clinical trials and  there are things like grants that have  been available to what they call small  businesses for this again because of the  conflation of DEI with women's health

some of those have been taken away so  again we need to be very cognizant of  that issue and then finally not finally  but reimbursement if you look at that um  we know that certain procedures for  example that are um similar between men  and you know women, the ones that are  done on women actually get reimbursed in  somewhat cases less.

So what if if you  have a a choice where you if you're a  health system or provider, what are you  going to do? You're not going to do the  women's procedure, you're going to do  the men's procedure. So we need to focus  on that as well as well as coverage  decisions for insurance. And where that  really makes a a impact is that Medicare  and Medicaid, the government um backed  insurance really dictates what  commercial insurance will cover.

So when  they make decisions and that's a policy  decision, commercial follows. And  finally, we can also impact on medical  education dollars as to what is taught  in medical schools and in training. And  so that's also a policy decision as  well. So if we make a decision to make  physicians aware of these new  innovations as well as women's health in  general, then we're be better served.

So  as you can see all along the pipeline is  where policy really makes a difference  and where we have opportunities to  really benefit everyone.  Yeah. Wow. I love I love how you strung  that all together and where policy  intersects every time. Um it's so  exciting to be part of this and it's we  got a lot of work to do.

So thank you  for taking us all the way through that.  Take you on that journey, right?  Yeah. Yeah. We're on a journey.  Absolutely. Um so Beth, back to you. Can  you tell us about your experience as an  entrepreneur, how you see private sector  funding as it relates to policy and the  what the landscape looks like for  women's health?  Yeah, thanks for that.

So as the CEO of  Santa Therapeutics, so my experience uh  as an entrepreneur has really been  grounded in identifying an important  unmet need and then building the  company, the team, the partnerships  necessary, you know, to address it. And  of course entrepreneurship requires  vision um you know but it always  requires um discipline as well  resilience willingness to keep you know  uh learning and adapting and ultimately  it's about translating right a  compelling scientific or say a clinical  opportunity into something that can  actually improve patients lives which is  what we're all after here right um I  view private sector funding really as an  essential partner I guess I would say to  public policy, right? I mean, policy can  you've heard about that now can help  really define sort of priorities. um can  certainly remove I think um barriers  here and there um can encourage

innovation as you just heard about um  and ensure of course that patients needs  and and public health kind of remain  central right um private capital capital  though I think provides the resources  then um and then the expertise right to  then turn these um promising research um  uh researchers into therapies right  companies and solutions right um that  can then reach patients.

So the two are  really most effective I would say when  they work together right when policy  creates the right environment for  innovation and private investment helps  move that innovation forward. Um I would  say that you know the the landscape is  is changing. Uh I think there is really  growing recognition really of both the  sign really significant unmet needs in  women's health and I'm hearing that  every single day right I mean um you  know as a person who's you know  financing um you know getting money for  for women's health it's changed for sure  over the years which which is exciting  um we're seeing increased interest right  from entrepreneurs investors researchers  policy makers um but you know I would  say though this momentum I think we need  to really sort of make sure that we we  sustain that, right? Um with better  data. You've just heard about data  already. Um  certainly more inclusive clinical  research um funding models um you know

that support companies kind of through  that long very complex uh process of  developing therapy. So for me the  opportunity is not it's not simply just  to build a successful company. It's to  help really advance a health care system  that um that takes women women's health  really seriously and invests in the  science and you know gets us better  outcomes for women across their lives.

Great. Well, thank you for all that  you're doing. That's exciting and so  important. So, um, let's get to back to  Liz specific issues, critical issues  related to endometriosis and breast  cancer legislation because we have  research funding and the early act. And  I'd love to have you talk more about  what we might expect from outcomes in  those spaces.

Yeah. So, I'll I would love to start  with a thank you to our advocates. So,  we did a big push for the Early Act,  which um funds and reauthorizes um  screening programs for women and uh we  did a big push and got that to pass the  House. So, now we're waiting to see if  that can pass the Senate. They're not in  session this week and they have very  little time left before they're out  completely for the elections.

So, um  it's unlikely that things will move  before the elections. So at the end of  the year when they come back after  November 3rd, that is when they will  have to figure out a lot of these bills.  And so we have been working to continue  to educate and advocate for the early  act. Um we've been working on  indometriosis as you mentioned.

We've  done a couple letters to Department of  Labor for workplace protections. Um we  just did a letter uh with Congresswoman  uh Williams for um HHS, Health and Human  Services around uh reimbursement gaps  for endometriosis. It's the same code,  same reimbursement rate for ablation  that takes 30 minutes versus excision  that can take four, six, even eight  hours.

Um, which is insane that we're  disincentivizing to do the gold standard  care. Um, and and many other issues that  we're working on. Um, we were also  excited to see the improve act pass um  the same night actually in the house uh  which is addressing maternal mortality  and maternal health issues. Um, so  there's lots of legislation that we are  seeing is non-controversial.

It's just  having the time to get it onto the  schedule um that we could see uh getting  through at the end of the year. We  certainly will be advocating um and  sometimes they'll just put it all  together on an omnibus. Uh they have to  get the 12 appropriations bills done. So  it'll be a big bill likely that will  include all of it.

And the other factor  though is how the elections swing  things. So, do we have a sudden change  in control? Many are thinking that Hakee  Jeff will become the new speaker in the  House. And if that's the case, then they  may punt it to next year. Um, and uh  when the Democrats have more power to do  it.

So, um because either way though in  the House, the chamber is so razor thin,  it doesn't really matter. Um you really  will need both sides to get a lot of  things through. So, it's not going to be  a huge shift. If it does shift power,  it'll just be a little bit of a shift.  Um but that does give them some power to  do things and that gives them the  control of the gavl of the committees  and so they will do I'm sure lots of  investigations.

There'll be a lot um a  big dynamic change in the committees.  Now for the Senate it's still up in the  air. We don't know um it'll be tight for  Democrats to take control of the Senate  but either way we expect the chamber to  be closer the margin to be closer  between the two. So all that impacts  what legislation can be worked on.

So,  are we going to see huge, you know, $200  billion increase for women's health  research? Unlikely, right? But could we  see other changes? Like, could we fix  the reimbursement challenges Mity is  talking about? Um the the gaps um in  care, in access, in rural health, like  there's a lot of good issues that we  could be working on in women's health  that are very bipartisan that no matter  who controls, we will certainly be um  working to make it a priority.

I have to say, Liz, every time I hear  from you, I always feel better about  things. So, thank you.  Optimism.  No, you're um you're a force and  appreciate you so much. You talked a  little bit about maternal health. Mity,  can you talk more about our country's  maternal health policies and where we  currently stand?  Yes. It makes me sad.

Um not about  maternal health, but about our outcomes.  we are um at least 24th if not worse um  when we look at all of the other  developed and non-developed countries  when it comes to our maternal health  outcomes and for black women  they have a three times more increased  risk of dying than Caucasian women. We  need to do better obviously and um that  also provides us opportunity.

It's not  just a care problem, but it's also a  prevention screening access problem. We  have one, I believe, out of three um  counties in the United States that are  OB deserts, which means that there's no  um obstetrical services at all. We see  number of hospitals closing their L &D  because of low reimbursement and  resources and obviously our rural health  um residents uh suffer the most but in  in every state uh everywhere we really  have a der of access.

Here's the good  part. Innovation can help right? So  through teleaalth, through remote  monitoring, um to be able to identify  things faster so that we can get more  treatment to the women that need it. Um  AI enhanced information both for  physicians and for women. And again, in  all of those areas, policy really makes  a difference.

40%  of births in this country are covered by  Medicaid, which is a government  sponsored um insurance. So obviously  when Medicaid gets cut, those women are  impacted. Um but when it gets expanded,  they're also impacted in a positive way.  Also, there was something called  Medicaid expansion that was provided to  the states a few years ago.

And that  means that there's coverage for that  fourth trimester, that year after birth,  where you can identify issues or treat  issues that were um that came up during  pregnancy like preeacclampsia and  hypertension, diabetes, mental health  issues. Um so important.  Yeah.  And we're seeing that, right?  Yeah.  And so um those states that adopted that  expansion actually had better outcomes.

So those are positives. And then to the  extent that we can support the  innovation  um that again creates these  opportunities for access for women um  with again uh relations to remote  monitoring, healthcare, diagnostics,  point of care, what we call where women  can actually do diagnostic test all of  those impact.

And then the final thing  that we talked about earlier was  reimbursement. So, a new law has come up  um or policy, I should say, that where  it used to be that you would get kind of  one-sizefits-all reimbursement as a  provider for an obstetrical case, now  they unbundled it so that if you have a  higher risk or a higher need patient,  you actually get paid for that.

So, that  should hopefully help a bit in terms of  that reimbur reimbursement and coverage  uh issue.  Great. That's great.  Um, so Beth, we she touched uh Mity  touched on Medicaid, Medicare. Do you  want to talk more about the impact of  CMS and why it's so important to health  insurance?  Oh, certainly.

Um, so yeah, the Centers  for Medicare and Medicaid uh services  plays truly a foundational role in the  US health care system as I think people  of all of us know as well. um its  decisions affect how millions and  millions of people ex access and pay pay  for care. So um as it relates to health  insurance um uh as it helps define uh  the rules of coverage and reimbursement  as you've heard um from Mitsy and its  policies of course influence which  services and therapies are covered, how  providers and insurance are paid, what  quality and value standards must be met,  um how affordability and access are  addressed. Um, it's also important to  know that CMS decisions, and I think  Missy, you already said this, but I'll  say it again because I think it's really  important that the decisions that CMS  makes um generally have a broader effect  on the the whole uh healthcare market by  establishing precedent and shaping  expectations, meaning commercial and

insurance pretty much generally follows  CMS decisions. Um, so that's important  to know. um some uh important areas I  think to aware of and I think actually  Metsy I think you al also mentioned this  is you know the fact that Medicaid  covers about 20 about 42% of all births  which is amazing and you know just  considering um you know what we just  heard about you know birth and for women  um and their babies I mean it's critical  that we address these horrific you know  disparities between women of color and  and uh Caucasian women you know this  better coverage is clearly badly needed  needed. Um I think you also heard from  Met Mitsy, I'll say it again, about you  know differences in reimbursement rates  for surgical procedures uh for male and  female uh patients. This is absolutely  not okay and we must address this  disparity and and thankfully actually we  have uh Joselyn uh Fitz Fitzgerald who's  an amazing um uh uh physician and a

member of women's health advocates who's  working very very hard on this. So  that's really exciting I would say. um  for companies um like me that are  developing new therapies, you know, CMS  is also, you know, a critical  stakeholder. There's FDA, of course, we  have to get our our products approved  and that tells us that a the arapy is  it's safe, it's effective, right, for  its intended use.

But, um coverage and  reimbursement actually, right, that's  what ultimately determines whether a  patient can actually realistically  access our products, right? So, that's  really, really important. And this means  that innovators really need to think  early about their evidence right what  are they going to bring to CMS um  regarding you know clinical efficacy and  safety real world outcomes you know what  what are the health economics what's the  patient impact um the value right um to  the health care system really really  important I would say many companies  that are especially sort of startups  really don't understand that so I I  continue to talk about the fact at about  thinking about that very very early um  uh in uh development. CMS also I mean I  think it really does have an important  role in you know sort of advancing  health equity or at least it should  right um I think its polities its  policies can you know help address um

disparities and access improve quality  you know across populations ensure right  that innovation reaches the patients who  need it most not only those who have the  greatest ability to pay so from my  perspective as an entrepreneur CMS is  it's not just simply you know a  regulator or payer um it's one of the  key institutions shaping the healthcare  ecosystem and understanding its role is  really essential to developing solutions  for women that are not only  scientifically meaningful but also  accessible and affordable and  sustainable within the health care  system.  Wow,  that [laughter]  we're all fired up. Go ahead, Ny.  That's okay. I just want to underline  what and because Beth can actually speak  to this much better than I can but a  place where I think that again it's a  great example of policy working is that  there is something called breakthrough  designation. So the government has  decided that there's something that  really needs solving that hasn't been  solved before and so maybe it's an

osteoporosis for example so that they  give basically somewhat of an expedited  approval process not less rigorous but  just again a little bit more expedited  and then if in fact it you know meets  all the criteria and all of that then it  can be reimbursed by CMS um or that  there's a a code or whatever given into  it.

That's a great example of how the  government and innovation work together  in order to get solutions to individuals  more quickly. And we have so many gaps  in women's health. I'm hoping to see a  lot more breakthrough designations in  the future. And Beth, I don't know if  you want to comment on that.  No, it's a great point. Yeah.  Yeah.

The rapid program is what's uh  pending right now. There's an open rule  to comment on it to close that gap.  Exactly. So, the two additional points I  just wanted to add to Beth, you got me  fired up. [clears throat]  Uh so one is menopause. So and  permenopause when women go in to see  their doctors um there is a copay and so  many of us are working to eliminate that  copay because it is essential.

There's  so many things happening and it's not  just hot flashes and brain fog. You  actually are suddenly at much higher  risk for heart disease and um autoimmune  and many other conditions. And so we  need to stop, we need to educate and  stop the the current practice of many  women seeing like 8 10 different doctors  before they finally get HRT or whatever  the the care is that they need.

So we  need to have a no copay for that and we  need to have better uh resources. The  other thing I wanted to point out just  to make a super fine point on this  because I think people don't realize the  reimbursement rate for equivalent  surgical procedures is anywhere from 30  to 150% higher if it is a male patient.  Let that sit.

That is unacceptable and  that is hurting patients. Not not just  the one that's getting the surgery, but  future patients. Because if you can't  afford to do these surgeries, whether  you're the doctor or the medical  facility, you're going to do fewer and  fewer of these surgeries, and eventually  you're just going to shut down that wing  completely.

So, that's going to hurt all  women. So, just wanted to make a finer  point on that one. Well, I cannot  believe we're here and we hadn't talked  about menopause yet. So, [laughter]  thank you.  Thank you for that. And osteoporosis.  Yeah. So important. And um Liz, this is  a I think a final question, although  I'll open up at the end if there's  anything you want to add, but back to  the midterms, right? There's so many  issues we have to tackle, so many things  we just talked about.

What do you expect  to happen and what are some races that  we should be watching and how they  impact the industry and patients and  interesting candidates that you think we  should be looking at? Uh yeah. Well, I  have to say certainly hope more and more  candidates um are talking about women's  health issues and seeing that broad  definition of women's health really is  impacting their constituents.

We're  working to help shape that. Uh we're  doing voter education efforts. We've  been doing this whole amazing initiative  that Mity took the lead on called My  Vote Our Health. Five-part series and  we've got another one uh coming up on  September 24th and then the final one in  October. So, uh tune in for that. But  also um we are tracking the elections  and we are evaluating those top races  and I think there's some really uh  interesting candidates and elections  happening in Arizona where we have a  physician running. There's um in Iowa,  you've got not just two reps, but the  senator, all of those are toss-ups. Um  Ohio suddenly now has uh two tossups.  Plus, the Senate race is a tossup.  You've got Pennsylvania, there's a  couple, there's three in Pennsylvania  that are toss-ups. Um Michigan is really  interesting. Two, uh again on the House  side that are toss-ups. And then the  Senate race is proving um different than

what people thought because El won uh  who's the far-left candidate but also a  physician uh won the Democratic  nomination and then Mike Rogers is an  incumbent former congressman um pretty  moderate actually when I worked on  Capitol Hill. He was in office and we  did work together um on a lot of things  and so that'll be interesting race that  could really go either way.

So there's  um a lot of races to watch, a lot of  states to watch. Um, no matter what  though, we are making sure people  understand that women's health is  bipartisan. Women's health impacts all  of us. It impacts our economy. Um, and  we are hoping to drive people to vote  for women's health. Talk to candidates  about women's health, what they think  about women's health, and then make sure  that you vote for women's health.

Great. Great way to end it. Is there  anything that we didn't talk about,  panelists, that you'd like to add? I um  I always like to open it up.  I would like to just underline a little  bit about what um Liz was saying as  well, and I think we've kind of had this  thread before, but I want to say it  explicitly.  Women's health is not a nice to have.

Sure, we all want better health for  everybody, but it's really an economic  imperative. It impacts on workforce. It  impacts on our economy. It impacts on um  our health care and health care cost.  And we have the data um if anybody needs  that to to believe it. McKenzie did a  report that is now I think you know  again very well known that if we were to  reduce the gap in women's health we  would get a $1 trillion return on  investment annually by 2040 globally in  the United States that translates to  $295 billion.

I don't know about you, but I could do a  lot with that kind of money, right?  You know, and so if we had $295 billion,  you know, um we could do so much, but it  also again is imperative for us as a  country. It increases our productivity.  It increases our um uh competitiveness.  Women are the majority of caregivers who  do it for free.

If we don't have women,  who's going to, you know, care as well  as reduce health care costs? So when we  talk about this, it's really something  that doesn't just benefit women, it  benefits everyone,  right?  And you can get rich off it. Hundred  billion dollars in ROIs in women's  health investments the past 25  trillion dollars  uh globally.

Well, okay, but the AOA, sorry, DX study  is what I'm quoting. So  Oh, okay. That  Oriana report. So um they found that uh  by just studying all the exits and then  making sure they're classified correctly  that a hundred billion dollars in ROIs  have already been earned. People are  wealthy today because of their  investments in women's health and half  of that in just the past five years and  includes 27 plus unicorns.

So if you  don't care about any of that, you can  make money. Just think about it that  way. [laughter]  Do well and do good.  There you go. There you Well, I want to  say that  this is so interesting and the timing is  so important because we're heading into  the midterms. So, there's so much for us  to be advocating for.

Um, we will be  having Liz on the main stage at health  after the midterms and I know you're  doing you talked about the analysis  you're going to be doing. So, stay tuned  to that for that as well. We we may come  back and do another webinar. Um, after  Can you share the title? I love the  title.

the title of this webinar or the  title of  no my my talk what the elections just  decided for women's health  right right so um so that that'll be you  know packed house I'm sure um and and  then I just wanted to say unless Liz you  want to talk about what people should do  if they want to take action or do you  want me to take that one  uh yeah go ahead  okay so if you want to take action  [laughter] please visit women'salth  where you can join our community right  to Congress, join our steering  committee, and donate.

Thank you. This was amazing. You are all  We're just I'm so grateful that you  joined me today. I'm so grateful that  for all that you're doing and um look  forward to hearing more. So, thank you  so much again.  Thank you so much. Appreciate it.