Title: The Life365 Demo
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8WaIfWAXqrE
Language: en
Duration: 00:47:16
Upload Date: Apr 7, 2025

Transcription:

[Music] Hi, Matthew Hold. It's another THCB spotlight. We're going to dive into the world of uh what I call the continuous clinic connecting with patients wherever and wherever they are. And I have with me um industry veteran who's been around around a while in this space, Ken Dixs um who is the CEO of Life 365 and his colleague Kendall Pollson who runs Teleah Health Solutions at Life 365. And we're going to talk a little bit and then see and then see a demo of how life 365 is is uh you know working and

helping in this idea of of of tracking people and helping improve their care. So with that, Ken, uh you've been on a bit of a journey around this space for some years now. So tell me a little bit about your background, what you did previously working with Microsoft Health and some of the other things you're doing. And then give me a sense about where you think this market of what's called RPM, but encompasses a whole bunch of tracking stuff is today. So tell us a little bit about you and a

little bit about Light 60 365 and a little bit about where you think we are today. So, Matthew, again, thank you so much for having me this morning. This is um this is my third venture, second in healthcare. Last one was a company uh where we were probably one of the first ones to go through and and create one of the first cellular uh Bluetooth wireless device, you know, to be able to connect remotely into the home. It was a company called Metaps, which we were acquired by AIR, which was in 100 countries. It was

a five, you know, billion dollar publicly traded company. Where you and I crossed paths before was at Microsoft when we took that device called the Health Pal and we interfaced it into Health Vault, which today I still think was a very good concept. It was a concept where on one side of the vault you put, you know, uh devices, connected devices and data, right? And the other side of the vault was to be able to go through and and attach applications to it. Um and so um you know the devices that we've created before we knew being

in remote patient monitoring um that it was just scratching the surface. We knew that um you know you wanted to be able to get to larger populations of patients. Uh but one thing that was holding it back from scaling is that there was all this equipment you had to send out to people, right? To be able to do scales, blood pressure, pulse occimmetry and and going into a patient's home, you didn't know how you could connect, would you connect through their cell phone? Did they have a smartphone? You know, did grandma, you

know, have Wi-Fi or people have Wi-Fi that was out there? So, we had to make platforms that were um ubiquitous, right? and to be able to connect to multiple different platforms or to have the data self-contained into its own device itself. My biggest thing uh coming forward with live 365 is that I believe the driver in this industry now we've been trying to you know you and others have been trying and myself have been trying to push this industry forward to get um to do more with less um to be able to take care of more

patients because we're getting older. um data is going to play an incredible key in doing in monitoring those larger populations and AI is going to play a a large large population in that. So, our goal at Light 365 is to be able to go through and um seamlessly connect into the home to be able to get critical data that's needed to feed back to centralized AI systems, right? To be able to monitor patients from a distance um and to create proactive, preventive, um personalized and prioritized care

right out there. That's our mission. So what I love it and you know I've been I I literally I I saw a talk that I gave right at the start of the pandemic for the fire day fire dev days uh community of fire developers and uh you know there there are a couple of things that have changed since you know metab which led became a health forget when they turned health off 2014 20 sometime it was a little after they turned off Google Google health but here's a couple of things have changed right one is there's there's

more ubiquity of infrastructure for devices. There's more devices. There's more ubiquity of that sort of bandwidth and infrastructure of Wi-Fi and cellular, you know, 5G and all the rest of it. There's also on the other side the fire stuff, there's more data available, medical records to interface with it. And obviously, we have more, as you mentioned, AI, um, ways that we can start figuring out what to do with all that data and information we're gathering. So, technologically, we're getting

somewhere. And then there has been now Medicare payments and some other interesting commercial Medicare Advantage payments for remote patient monitoring, both remote therapeutic monitoring, chronic chronic care management, you know, some other sort of uh payments coming along. Give me your now you've been doing this for a long time. Give me your sort of flavor of where we are in terms of getting this category of managing patients at a distance sort of off the ground. Uh, you know, I'm biased, right? So I have an

interest for this to be now everybody every year is probably saying this is the year this is the year this is the year right and you've been around for a while to do that but I look at I look at trends when I we when you and I said or I said this is the year you know 10 years ago we didn't have reimbursement in place right for this um we still you know and today we still do probably 90 95% fee for service right from that out out there as well you've got to at least those are starting to be um absorbed and

put in place. We're starting to do value based care. We're starting to do reimbursement from that as well. But you've really got to look at the catalyst of what's going to drive, right? A 6 trillion spend in healthcare, 20% of GDP is not going to is not going to be sustainable. We know that, right, from that perspective. Um but we also know we're graduating 10,000 people per day that are turning 65 and 70% of them have one or more chronic diseases uh from that. But I I I I squarely look at

what is the fuel to drive this forward right from that perspective. Um is it the provider that's going through and making a decision how to drive it forward? And clearly what's been shown it's the consumer and the payer that are the people that are driving it forward. But what are the elements to drive forward? when when when PCs were invented, they they caused and created a trillion dollar, you know, um build in industries of other stuff, financial apps, you know, they're out there

gaming, all that kind of stuff. You know, when smartphones were developed, they caused trillion dollar industries to emerge, right? They're out there and Ubers and, you know, lifts and everything else with it as well. What is that trillion dollar push that's happening today? AI. AI is going to be the trillion dollar push to be able to I mean you can't even go through and say that's a nice to have anymore because AI is going through and say here's a better way for us to do it right from that

standpoint and you better keep up with me and what AI needs is to be able to have the data it's hungry for data doctors don't need more data but AI is and that's solely our role is do one of the hardest things that AI sitting there is the catcher and we want to be the pitcher of the data go to the home, right? Get the data for them cost effectively, proactively to be able to do it and get it into the eye system so they can start prioritizing who's going to uh who's who needs to have attention.

If you think of it just one more second, Matthew, now we're going into pharmarmacco genomics, right? As well, instead of just giving drugs to people and going, hey, did that work? No, it didn't work. Hey, let's give you another drug. Did that work? No, it didn't. Here, let's give you another drug. We're going into the age of personalized medicine, not in a genomic sense, but personalization around when people are making choices, right, about how they incur, you know, uh are

involved in their health in their healthcare and self-management, they're going to be able to have choices now to decide how they engage in their own care. That's going to really what drives and fuels this forward. Yeah, I mean, I'd agree. And uh you I talked to Robbie Pearl had an interview with him after his recent book sometime in November December last year and he was you know essentially saying yes we haven't been able to to to catch the data and now we have AI systems and LMS

that can start catching it for us and obviously identifying who the people are who require what interventions and I think that's that's been the key right is that we have we've been trying over the years to move to what I call flipping into what I used to call flipping the stack where the technology is basically pegging attention and then the care as the intervention afterwards rather than we track people's situation when they are in front of a doctor or in front in a hospital and kind of don't

worry about the rest of the time and we need to go to that sort of uh more more regular monitoring and you need technology that can both as you said produce the data catch it if you like and then uh figure out what to do about it right that's obviously what we are so so I think let's let's take a look then at what Life 365 is doing. You've got an array of stuff that you both built and incorporate, you know, own own and use sort of in the process and we're going to show a little bit of, you know, how

that works. So, um, why don't you, uh, share your screens, show me what you got and fire up and talk me a little bit about what the experience is for the the patient and the medical assistant slashprovider. Yeah, I Kendall's going to get set up here to to get going, but one of the things I just want to point out, one of the the big um I would say advantages of, you know, partnering with us, we've got a great relationship going with Microsoft. Uh we can talk about that in a in a few, but we interfaced to

over um 550 different medical devices that are out there to allow that data to flow in from the home very economically. And one of the big advantages to health systems out there is that they don't have to go out and talk to 550 device companies to try to get them integrated and secured and contracted with that. They come to one platform, one connection to be able to get multiple devices um integrated in. Yeah, thanks Kent. Um, so I think if we want to dive in here, we're going to show how our remote patient monitoring

platform as well as our pill drill smart medication tracking solution can work together to help keep patients and individuals healthy at home. So, I'm going to be playing the part of the clinician and Kent's going to be presenting as the patient using these tools at home. Um, you know, we use these tools to help individuals stay on track. So, I'm just going to give a pretend health background for Kent here. So, Kent's going to be playing a patient that has hypertension. We are trying to keep his

high blood pressure in check. Um, he takes blood pressure medication, emotapene, daily. We're also going to say that he has mild asthma, so he's going to be using an inhaler as well. And I we selected these conditions specifically because these would qualify him for a remote patient monitoring or remote therapeutic monitoring program. Um while those can't be you know built together we are just going to use this for demonstration p you know purposes how each solution can be applied. Uh so

I guess we'll just jump right in here. I have our clinician dashboard. So if I'm a medical assistant monitoring uh you know a patient panel here uh I'm gonna have you know Kent at home. He's going to take a blood pressure reading. So, Ken, if you'd like to go ahead and and take a a blood pressure reading or show the the blood pressure solution you use. Go ahead. So, Dr. Kennel, I'm actually um going through and using the blood pressure device that you sent to us, right? And

this is um I guess a Tanovi uh device which is um has wireless technology in it, but it connects to this little hub that was sent as well. I just really go through and just plug it in. It's already been preconfigured by your team right from that. And eventually, I guess this has cellular connectivity in it that goes directly into your portal background. And this one talks to the hub to be able to send the data through. And uh Wow, my blood pressure is a little bit high. It's Yes. So Ken, thanks for That's good. K,

we're making we're making you nervous. Whenever I got mine down on stage, it was always like, you know, 160 over 95 or something. Yeah. And so, um, you know, Kent was right on the base there. We do have multiple connectivity solutions for individuals, but what we found is this particular solution Kent's using at home. It has cellular connectivity in it. The blood pressure monitor automatically connects to that cellular hub and the data is transmitted to the portal here that I can see in,

you know, near real time. And what we've found is that reducing barriers like having patients at home or individuals at home connect to their Wi-Fi or try and download an app and then pair a Bluetooth device. Using these these simple tools really helps increase adherence to any programs or treatment plans they're on, but also greatly reduces any type of technical support issues and frustrations on the end of the individual. Um, so in near real time here, so Kent took a blood pressure reading. If I'm a clinician here

monitoring my panel, I have set a threshold parameter in here for Kent. So I can be alerted if he has any measurements outside of a set parameter. So I can see that Kent has had three high readings today. And as a clinician, I can pop in here and see this and say, "Okay, these all have been high." Um, I can then contact this patient to either um, you know, find out what's going on, provide some education. Um, so Kent, let's just pretend I'm calling you. Um, actually, Kendall, let me just interrupt

and say, just in case you hadn't noticed, the bottom one there is the reading that just happened at uh, where are 2:28 uh, 2:28 uh, East Coast time. Yes. Yes. It's very near. recording this at uh you know 11:28 West Coast time, which I think is the same time. Yes, we're all over all over the place here, but um yes, it does come in here in near real time. I can see that there were three readings taken today. Um all outside of a a threat, you know, set parameter that I and Kent's been getting

worse all day in the last week. Don't keep us going, Ken. So, if I'm the, you know, the medical assistant and I'm charged with monitoring this population and calling patients for out of range readings, I can say, you know, hi, Mr. Dixs. How are you doing? I I noticed that you've had a few high readings today. You know, is anything going on? Are you feeling dizzy, short of breath? Can you tell me a little bit about what's what's happening here? Yeah, I'm not I'm not dizzy. Um, but a little bit

off from that standpoint. Uh, maybe, you know, I shouldn't had that triple espresso this morning. That's probably one thing. But the other thing I noticed is my, you know, my pill drill that I have over here is telling me I didn't take my emotapene, right, as well. So, probably a good indication of why my blood pressure is going up. Hey, you know, thanks Kent for sharing that. That can definitely definitely do it. Um, you know, caffeine can definitely raise your blood pressure. It can also make it

harder for the medications you are taking to work. So, what I'm going to do is, you know, ask you, please remember to take your medication. Maybe you can reduce your caffeine intake. maybe try some decaf coffee drinks and I'm going to place a note in here that you forgot your medication and that you were drinking some coffee and we're going to continue to monitor you. So, if I continue to see some high readings in here, I'm going to get in touch with your provider and see if we need to make

any adjustments to your to your care plan. Um, but if you can, you know, take your readings again later and tomorrow as directed, we're going to keep an eye on you. Awesome. Great. Thank you. Yeah. So then as a clinician, can could you show us the pill drill again? You kind of brought up that quickly. Yeah, it's coming up here in a second. Okay. Well, that's good. So, just to kind of close us out here, as a clinician, I can come in here and acknowledge these readings as um I've, you know, I've acknowledged

them. I've contacted the patient. I can go in here and then here at the top, I've been on this patient's page, Kent's page. It's tracking the time I'm on here. I can open a note in here for this encounter. And what I can do is say, you know, I called this patient, notated why their readings were high, provided education, and we're going to continue to monitor for any inconsistent readings. So, I can save this in here. And now we know, and you know, Kent's benefited from some education, some

additional support reminders to take his medication. And that's what our what our goal is here. If we need to provide an intervention earlier, we can. Um and I have those insights to to take charge and make any changes to the treatment plan if we notice things are off. Okay. So I you know I think we've um kind of shared our remote patient monitoring kind of workflow but can I let me let me ask you one question there Ken about that. I know that um there's some controversy about this that there

has to be a certain amount of time spent by the uh by the clinic staff or or other staff in order to sort of get paid for that. Does that is is that accounted for in this process or is that accountable somewhere else? How how do you work that? Yes, that is that is true. So, you're right on the nose there. Um there are time requirements to to meet for billing and within our portal. We've incorporated those um you know those changes to help with documentation processing processes for our clinicians. Um so, timers, notes,

things like that. I would say it's probably 50/50. Customers that use their own system systems, customers that use ours, but yes, time tracking for those service components are required. Okay. So, so that that time recorded there 102 can be sort of audited and be part of the end up being. Okay. Helpful. Yep. And Matthew, we've got clinical partners that we work with out there that if some of our hospital systems want to go through and use their own uh um medical assistants to be able to monitor, they

can use this portal to do that. We've other got also got other clinical partners that have got clinicians in all 50 states uh to be able to monitor and u and be able to um uh keep people compliant under this as well. Yeah. I I even saw somebody on this is kind of amusing somebody who who was uh had an AI solution I think to for for documentation of this who said that sometimes the AI was speeding it up too much and therefore not taking enough time for the 20 minutes or whatever and they had an alternate solution where the

AI would slow people down if they require which I was I'm not quite you know but sometimes the incentives and the exact timing isn't quite what we're going for but and you know not to get ahead of ourselves But um we are looking at potentially having that time for reimbursement reduced. So hopefully we see these changes go into effect next year. Presumably the the goal here is to get the thing done properly and effectively rather than just to spend a certain amount of time. But you we we'll

continue. Sorry. Please get going, Kendall. Exactly. Yep. Um so I think if we you know Ken, I also noticed that you mentioned you're forgetting to take your medication. So I know you're using a pill smart medication tracking system. um you know, could you show us that system and kind of how you use it daily to remember to take your medications? Yeah, I think it's kind of magic a little bit with it in combination with um you know the other devices that I'm showing do. But this this is our the

pill system that was given to me and right now it's flashing blue uh because I forgot to take uh my medication from that. So, in this one, you know, you were concerned about um my emotapene, right, that's out there. So, I've got, you know, my my emotene that's in here. It's got a little tag on the top of it that is an A. You can use any tag you want. And you just touch it to the top of of the device that's out here. Try to get the right direction with it. Um, and it will go through and say that it took

its emotene, and the blue light stops flashing. And then eventually you'll see uh in in my record that the motipine was was taken. Now I I go through on just so you know I go through on a regular basis. Um you can see in my medication cabinet right that's over there that I've got um strips that are out here and I guess they've got little tiny RFID tags on the bottom of it. But those strips every single day um go through and tell me what I'm taking in the morning and in the evening. It flashes,

you know, at 9:00 in the morning or whatever time I say uh to be able to remind me to take my um my uh medication and then it flashes in the evening. And the interesting thing is just like when I get in my car and I'm on autopilot because GPS tells me what to where to go, I don't have to read a map anymore, right? I probably couldn't read a map if I wanted to from that. This is interesting. When I walk in in the morning and I see it flashing or I'm making dinner at night and I see it

flashing, I'm like, "Oh my gosh, I did forget to take my medication." Um, so I stroll over, take my medication, touch the little pod to it, and it turns it off. The other thing, too, which I really like about it, it comes with what's called a symptom cube, right, from that as well. So it can tell me on a regular basis whether I'm okay or great or sad or happy or awful right from that as well. So I can simply you know touch this because I'm with Matthew Holt. I'm in a great mood right um so I

just touch it to it and it goes through and says you know great right from that and records it. Um, and I have found this really super helpful because my wife, you know, um, especially when I'm traveling and stuff, my wife, you know, likes to know that I'm taking my medication. So, there are alerts that come through on my cell phone, right, from this, you know, and I can let her know how I'm feeling, right, as well or or you can know how I'm feeling from that as well. It reminds me on my phone

what to do. And then there's an application the same thing you're seeing here I can do on my phone as well right from that. So if I don't I'm not near the pill I'm traveling I can just say simply I took my medication as well with it. So it's all really super handy. And one other thing um you know I also take injections once a week. So I have a tag for injections. It's on a little, you know, tiny tab thing here, but we touch it to it and it'll say that the injection was taken as well. Now, it's

interesting. I have a friend that uses the pill drill, too, but the friend has um autism, right? High functioning autism. And interesting enough, um they need to stay connected to their parents or to their caregiver, right, from that, but live independently. So, they use these tags in a different way. Not only do they use them for medication, but they use them to say, "I got up in the morning. I took my shower. I went to work. I'm home. I went to bed." So, kind of like the activities of daily living.

It's really super cool. Yeah. And so, um, you know, right here I'm showing Kent's dashboard. This is what you would see as an individual either on the app or on the dashboard. And here I can see he took his morning pill pod. Um, afternoon has not been taken yet. And I can also see the emotapene here. So he has scanned that. Yeah. And so Ken, I know you had mentioned the scanning tags. We had said earlier that you were using an inhaler for your mild asthma. Can you show how you can use it on oddshaped type of

medications and things? Yeah. So on this the inhaler I use, you know, um as needed, right? my doctor's instructed me to use it as needed from that standpoint. You can also I can also schedule it too, but I tend to just go through and put, you know, a tag that corresponds to the name of the drug. You can use we have tags A through Z. You can use whatever tag you want. But once I use the inhaler on here, um, and you notice it's not flashing right now because it's as needed. I can take and

touch that inhaler to it and it can say it took my Simba cord right from that. Um, and what um, the doctor, you know, likes a lot, what you guys like a lot is the fact that not only can you see my meds, but you can see my vital signs that go with it all in real time. Yeah. And so, you know, this data really helps me monitor your pattern. So, I can see if you're overusing this inhaler. I can then intervene, update treatment plans, or see if, you know, something else like breathing exercises might be

appropriate. And so as a clinician, we have an enterprise portal for Pill Drill where um you know, if this was my patient panel here, I can see on a population level what my population's adherence score looks like overall. And I can also individually see that Kent took, you know, an unscheduled um you know, medication here. I can see he's he scanned his pill pods and I can see his individual adherence scores. I can see he missed a medication here. Um, so this really helps me at, you know,

the clinician level see how their medication adherence is doing and can intervene here, provide some additional nudges. Um, and I don't have to do it myself cuz like Kent said, he's getting notifications from the hub, he's getting them in the app, he can get texts, he can get emails, his family can get them as well. So everyone's kind of here helping support Kent stay on top of his treatment plan. Yeah. Very good. So um the obvious sort of first question for that is is how has this changed things like adherence

um keeping people in range overall health what kind of measurements do you have from your clients so far as to what impact this is having you know it's really super interesting uh Matthew I I I I it's it's interesting to look at the past and then kind of try to move forward and lesson learned when you know We learned from this from my previous company that smartphones really weren't out yet. Um, and we're working with the Medicaid population, but giving a $1,500 smartphone out to a Medicaid population

or to an older population as well, uh, was just really too risky to potentially do. That's why we created our own cellular device, mobile cellular device. So, we were way ahead of our time, uh, 15 years ago when we were doing this, right? 20 years ago when we were doing it. Um but even recently at White Plains Hospital uh we saw their readmission rates on their congestive heart failure patients go from mid20s down to 2.6% in a recent study. And you've got to understand like what what was driving

this was, you know, they did put, you know, um 911 triaging or ED diversion in place using paramedics with Emperor Ambulance and all that kind of stuff. Um but at the very beginning, we started using uh coste effective apps to download and Bluetooth devices. um and found that you know and we we and we found this when we did a pilot with with Microsoft and Cleveland Clinic that you know you walk into the home not everybody's going to have the same technology and stability and platform to be able to connect to these devices. So,

when we did this at Cleveland Clinic, I'll get back to White Plains in a minute, but we did at Cleveland Clinic um and we walked in with our own cellular device, it was great. We could be up and running and monitoring within 15 minutes, right? Trying to go in and use a kind of a Geek Squad approach where you go through and take in a Bluetooth device and expect to plug into, you know, to a person's uh computer that they have in their home or download an app. Um, you it was hours to try to get it configured right from that

and very expensive to do it. So we we kind of experience the same thing at White Planes. When you're downloading an app and you're asking somebody to put it on their phone, they might may not have the right phone to be able to do it and they may not be able to connect the Bluetooth devices. It's just too mentally, you know, encumbersome to do that. It's better to walk in with a single device like the Denovi we just showed you or a cellular enabled scalar blood pressure and it takes that whole

technology platform equation off the off the you know off the table right to do that was part of the reason why we drove to those lower numbers. Okay. So I like that right it's great to hear that it's starting to work. I don't know how much you know we can get the flavor of the whole thing you know there there's been a lot of sort of performative RPM I think cover times more so as much as there have been and we still have the problem mention of you it's fever service it would be really

great if people were on the hook and actually made some you know had a positive financial impact from producing emergency room if people did did well by doing good and we're still not quite there I think in in the system we can talk a bit bit more about about that but I am interested in the thing you raised earlier right which is you're now getting all these data flows in. Um Kendall did a bring you know did the yman's job of playing the clinician there but there's obviously not a lot of

extra time for clinicians you know primary care docs and their staff to manage this stuff unless someone's doing it. How are organizations that you're working with both doing you know managing the data with people and how are they starting to manage it with technology with AI give me a flavor of where that transition is. Well that's what I really love about our relationship with Microsoft. Microsoft has a platform. It used to be called Microsoft Cloud for Healthcare. Um it's now Microsoft Fabric. And the whole

thing that we want to try to eliminate from the thousands of health systems and providers that they interface to is the fact that they just don't they they need to go into community based care. They need to get data from the patient that's out there, but they just don't have the time or inclination to be able to do it and to scale it by the time they get it done a year later. It's probably the technology is probably changing, right? Or the reimbursement's changing out there as well. You know, Microsoft

Fabric is designed, especially with our RPM connector we've made for Microsoft, to be able to allow a health system that's got Azure, to be able to download this connector um and be able to take any one of the devices that Life 365 has, right? and to be able to have it come into the cloud and to uh go through fabric, potentially be manipulated uh to the health uh care systems standards through BI and through artificial intelligence and then directly send the data into the clinical backend system

for them into their EMR or EHR. It makes it really super simple so that they don't have to go through these 300 different RPM companies that are out there and try to weed through which ones are going to work, which ones are not going to work. I mean, the average RPM company uh going into a health system probably takes about a year from the time you have the first conversation with them to the time that you get through integration and security and contracting and everything else with it. And a lot of times it is only dealing

with the sick of the sick, the people that are, you know, into the emergency room have multiple discharges per year, the ones that are threatening their heat uh scores, right? From that perspective, they need something simpler and something that's already installed into their platform and easy to connect to and have the data flow into the back end is a very reasonable scenario, right, to do. So we want to take away that complexity right by using that connected platform right to do so so so you

started saying something there and there has been a lot you know not directly connected live 365 but clearly with uh EMR's epic being the not one talking about AI Microsoft has a deal with them both around ambient listening but also you know other AI tools Microsoft itself you mentioned fabricate has also been spending a lot of time you know with other aspects of AI and investments in open AI and all the rest of it right so that's clearly a massive push from them. Where do you where do you think we are

in terms of, you know, the clients you're working with with Epic or whomever else that they're working with, you know, getting to that point where it goes into the back end and stuff starts getting fired up and people start getting directed and patients start getting communicated with and contacted using AI rather than using, you know, a battalion of people like Kendall, you know, looking at the screens. Yeah. I I I'm a big believer and I don't I don't know if it's going to go this

way or not, but I'm a big believer right now we're at 16 days worth of readings for, you know, for RPM, right, with CMS. Um I we are proposing that it in support in the industry that it go to two day read two days of readings, right? Uh we'll see if that comes through at the end of this year. I believe whether it's 27 or 28 uh we are going to be to a point where um AI being the overarching you know um person that's monitoring a patient coming in based on the data and maybe nudging them back into compliance

you know shifting completely left you know into a population that's new and chronic I believe we're within range uh that that's going to be reimburseable in the future where we may not even have a human um going through and nudging people back into compliance and AI does the virtual first part of it from that but remember you know the EMRs and the EHRs that you're talking about from an AI perspective very very very hungry right for for data and the fabulous things that are coming out now you know

from like Google and their willow chip and showing that it's one septillion times faster than anything on the planet right for quantum computing you know it can do things where it took you know hundreds of years of computing power thousands of years of computing power now it can be done in minutes so the likelihood of having a triorder in our hands going forward is not just you know Kent's you know on drugs right kind of thinking right it's maybe even possible because that computing power is

being able to be put into our hands but let's think about AI when I talked about AI before and how it's going to drive this industry into a trillion dollar industry and needing data It's got all that data from the EMR and EHR for learning data. It's got claims data. It may have genomic data out there. That's all great from a learning perspective to say, you know, God, you know, anytime Kent's blood pressure gets above 160, it's almost there, right? Gets above 160 and his pulse oxymmetry is below 85 and

he gained 4% weight with uh within 2 days or 1 day and within 7 to 10 days, Kent would be heading to the emergency room. Right? So here's that shift left of going from reactive into proactive. So what do I need to be able to make that model work? You need this near realtime data that we just showed you, right? To say where is Kent today, right, to do. So I don't really see us as a remote patient monitoring company. I see us as a data and engagement company, right? From that perspective,

we've got to properly engage people. We've got to use the right tools at the right time to get the right outcome at the right cost, right? from that and it's all about alignment to make sure that it works on these large enterprise players. Yeah, you're completely reminding me of I said this talk I gave now I hate to say it four and a half years ago which I'm like why hasn't it come true yet but uh you know we we need to set up organizations so they are ready to take this on as their mission right and then

you've got the pieces in place but once you've got the the the outreach and the patient engagement you have the data monitoring you know in the back end and the action points out of it we've got to have organizations set up to do that because that's the only way, you know, that we're going to work and manage the chronic illness that we have. All right, sermon over from me. Uh let's talk just to wrap up here. Let's talk about uh uh Live 365. How long you've been doing

this? How big are you? How much money have you raised? How many clients you working with? Give me a flavor of the actual company itself. Yeah, so we're private uh from that perspective. I can share some stuff. Um you know, I've been in the industry personally 20 years right from that. Uh we built the first company in Metaps and you know filed a a bunch of patents and issued a bunch of patents you know with the Metaps technology and sold that to a um you know I took a year that's sold in what

15 16 time frame um and I took a year off the team took a year off um and I filed a bunch of patents on the next generation of wearable technology and AI uh and we've been very very fortunate to have been granted those patents you know our patent portfolio is you know incredibly valuable for us going forward to be able to collect this data and uh and be able to enable the large enterprise players that we're working with uh to be able to have a competitive stance in the marketplace. Right? So I

tend you know to not um go through and uh work with um smaller practices. I tend to work more in enterprise solved a large enterprise problem but we know that we have to make sure that we address the small practices and consumers and you know my mom was was probably the best in this of all my companies and understanding how to engage with technology. Uh she had three computers my dad was completely off the grid. They both had chronic illnesses in rural Iowa uh and we need to stay connected to the family, but really

training us really how people want to engage in their care, right? She she didn't want to she she didn't want to, you know, live an independent living. She wanted to stay independent. So, a lot of the stuff that we did with Medaps, but also with Blight 365, uh, was to be able to really serve a self-s serving need, and that's try to keep my parents uh, healthy, healthier, and monitored at home and live as independent as possible with it. So, we've been doing this for around 8 years

uh, from that. Uh, been lucky enough to in that 8-year period strike up a relationship with Microsoft once again. um they weren't connected from my last one to this one, but it just seems to be a really good partner of ours that emerges. Uh we've been very fortunate to be part of the billion-doll RPM program at the VA. We're really in the in the process of putting that together as we speak right now uh from it uh to be able to monitor veterans. The veterans right now under that billion dollar

initiative, there are four companies that are part of it. uh two very very large companies, but they're monitoring about 70,000 veterans. And the VA uh has about 18 million veterans in the US today. Half that use the VA system. The VA has expressed that they want to get to, you know, 10 times that amount, 700,000 to 2 million. And we believe when you're shifting left, right, to more veterans that are out there, we don't want to just stay addressing veterans in complex care. We want to

start getting them when they're newly chronic right from that and start seeing signs of stress or PTSD or other things that are out there as well. We partnered with other partners around us to be able to bring in other technology. We talked about this before like voice biomarkers, right, to be able to do that or using facial acquisition software to try to get data and run it through AI systems to start looking at trends of like who needs to be bumped to the top to look at now, right? from that perspective and

try to give care or allow a doctor to provide care to a prioritized list instead of just saying, "Oh, the way I'm going to prioritize is because they had another admission to the hospital and I'm going to go see them with a paramedic, right, and try to stabilize them." That is way the cow is way outside the far the the barn at that time. Let's try to get data way upstream in a very cost-effective way. use the microphone, use the the camera, use any way way we can disposable AIdriven

sensors to try to get data and control that larger population right from that uh without having to wait for them to get really sick. So give me a flavor of the scale of the company now and then you can talk about where could get 700,000 people on the air on the VA where how much money you raised so far. We've raised about 15 million right so far uh from this we are raising a $20 million round right now very successfully right from that um you know there have been other people in the in the marketplace that have done

similar to what we're doing and they've raised money way too aggressively right from that um 300 $400 million and then they're out of business right in a year or two. uh we want a very steady organic growth. We'll take uh money to be able to grow us, you know, along the way from that as we, you know, have our patents that are out there, as we have our relationships in vetted and stuff. So, um we're raising the $20 million round to be able to go through our growth phase right now. Okay. And what does

good look like in say three years time in terms of number of people on the system? Give me a flavor about how much impact you think you can have during that time. Yeah, I think uh you know we uh we've got you know probably um several thousand people that we're monitoring at any one time right now because we're just kind of ramping up with that as well. I'm a big believer that um that the health systems are going to consolidate right from that. I think we'll have about 15 large health

systems in the future. All those will be providers. They'll probably be payers. They'll all have their own purchasing organizations. um they'll all have to have remote connected care into communities to be able to get data. I also think the government is probably going to um allocate money into those 15 different large health systems um which probably addresses some portion of singlepayer out there as well. I also think they won't share very nicely between each other right from that. Um when we

started going through the pandemic I'll say this really quickly we go through the pandemic people got used to tella health uh from that perspective um I think people are more and more u wanting tellahalth but also what the pandemic did is start stepping into health systems and taking their patients away from them the ones that have the ability to pay. So these health systems are forced to be able to go onto a platform to get uh patients that have the ability to pay and have uh and bring revenue

into their system. So um I think uh from an acquisition perspective three years from now I think we will be acquired. I think we've I always kind of create my company so that when large enterprise um uh players need to be in the marketplace need to be protected need to grow any one of those large health systems will probably be an acquisition target for us. Any one of the large systems like Microsoft, Amazon, Google will require us to be able to bring data into their systems and have protection away from

their competitors. Anyone that's, you know, a Walgreens, a CVS, you know, a Walmart is that's taking on uh care for patients that are out there needs to have data and proactive care or even any one of the um uh uh EMR EHR companies that needs to have data into their systems. um you know, Oracle Health, Cerner, you know, uh Epic, although Epic's not done any um uh acquisitions that are out there from that perspective. They're getting friendlier with some of their partners now. Let's

put it that way. At least we'll see what happens, especially, you know, but anybody that has financial responsibility for the patient or anybody that needs to have data proactively, I think is a good uh a good partner with us. No. And I and I and I don't disagree. I think that you know we're going to see as these organizations big organizations consolidate in systems there's going to be a much uh to me they're going to have to end up thinking about how do they manage the global care of you know God

knows how things going to play out with United and Opt and all the rest of it but how do they manage the global care of that population it's just going to be you know if you look at this this the evolution of technology AI plus the need for chronic care management especially as as people get older you know we're going to have to figure out how way to do that what the exact structure is, who knows? But I mean, your your guess is as good as anybody's, I think. And and we've already started doing this,

Matthew, over the last couple years, but we've acquired a couple companies. One was a pill drill system into us to add functionality. Another one is an affirm, which is a small small sensor that runs off a coin cell battery for a long period of time to send vitals instantly back to the cloud and be able to dispose of it and driven by AI. But I think the industry is ripe for consolidation and rollup. I just do right because the health care industry cannot go through and absorb single point disparit
solutions. They can't do it. And so our acquirer has got to they want a platform. They want uh solutions that have already been integrated and rolled up and consolidated. Whether it's AI systems that we bring in, whether it's engagement systems, um whether it is, you know, nursing call centers and monitoring, those are all the things that we are bringing into our platform to be able to roll up to be able to a good acquisition candidate. Yeah, it makes a lot of sense and uh good luck as
you guys go forward and uh you know I I the point to me is we got to figure out how organizationally now the technolog is here now the where you know treating people better is here and caring for them better is here. How do we it's the same old problem. How do we scale this and get us out of the mo the mindset of you know one person one visit at a time with you know without knowing what's going on without being able to be proactive and as you say go to the left. Um, we need to figure out how to do
that. So, all right. Fantastic. Well, I think we're all in agreement about that. We'll just hang out till it all happens and everyone gets rich and and better. Okay. I've been speaking with Ken Dixs. He is the CEO and Kendall Porson. She is in charge of Tell Solutions at Life 365. Uh, Ken Kendall, thank you so much for the uh the demo. Thanks for the conversation and uh looking forward to seeing you guys as you evolve. Thank you, Matthew. Yeah, thanks for having us.