Title: Tom Knight, HealthcareDiversion.org
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qgn7-tgwzmM
Language: en
Duration: 00:34:35
Upload Date: May 1, 2025

Transcription:

Matthew Hall, another THCV spotlight. I'm here with Tom Knight. Tom has a long background in uh uh data technology and other areas. Um most particularly for many years uh ran a company called Investics which ended up as part of Walter's Cluer. Um not unrelated to what we're going to talk about now. Um Tom is now these days he has his own business called Optinosis but he's uh appearing here because he's the uh chairman of a nonprofit called Healthcare Diversion or Healthcare which you can find on the web

at healthcare diversion.org. Uh Tom, thanks for joining me. First up, what the hell is healthcare diversion? And we're talking here about mostly medication diversion. And I think we've probably all heard stories about this, but you know, tell us what it is and give us, you know, tell us what the problem is. Yeah, thanks Matthew. So, drug diversion in healthc care facilities is when someone is stealing drugs. Uh someone who's working there or in the facility and it happens all too often. Our nonprofit's mission is to

reduce how much drug diversion happens in healthcare. So, give me a sense about um what we're talking about what I assume most people think about this and we'll probably get to a couple of cases later. Most people think about this as people who are who are healthcare employees who are addicted and are taking drugs and then either not replacing them or replacing them with something else. But it's not. It's that but it's more. So give me a sense about the flavors of of what's going on. Sure.

Sure. Well, most of the time people talk about drug diversion, it's done by people who are working in the facility, you know, nurses, doctors, other clinicians like pharmacists. um and they're usually stealing the drugs to take themselves um for whatever reason. They may have developed a substance use disorder and they need them to avoid withdrawal or they might be some other cycle of abuse. Um and they have a whole variety of ways that they can steal the drugs which we can talk about. Uh the challenge of course

is people who are stealing drugs will do anything they can uh to get those drugs and to cover up their theft. And that's why it's a difficult problem to address, but it's one with a lot of victims that we could talk about, a lot of risk, right? But it's not just that, right? There's also other types of diversion. U well, we focus on drug diversion, but there are other types of diversion where people are doing Medicare fraud or they're diverting patients to different hospitals, but we

focus on that definition of drug diversion. Okay. So, let's talk a bit about what you're trying to do. Well, before we get that, give me give me a sense of the scale of the problem. When we talked before, you have some like some statistics uh which I thought were fairly alarming. So, give me give me a sense of the scale of the problem. Yeah, there's been quite a bit of research done to estimate how often drugs are diverted. Um and the best statistic is roughly one in 10 health care clinicians

will divert drugs at some point in their career. Um the numbers are actually probably higher than 20 10% for some types of health care professionals. Um like anesthesiologists for example um but on average over the course of a clinician's career roughly one in 10 will divert drugs at some point. I mean that's a huge huge number given how many clinicians there are in America and you know the impact down the road road of you if one in 10 people is diverting you know especially controlled substances

and they're not available. I mean it incredible. You just think about a, you know, typical size hospital might have, you know, 300 beds or so. That's about a thousand nurses. Uh, so 10% of a thousand is, you know, 100 nurses over the course of their career will be diverting. Uh, some of them in many cases for years before their diversion stops or or they're detected. So, this is a huge problem. Uh, it's flared up in the news from time to time. We'll touch on a couple of those cases, but it

probably doesn't get that much publicity compared to the scale of the problem. Um, and so tell me what healthcare diversion.org is and what you're trying to do about it. Sure. Well, part of why we started the nonprofit is to raise awareness of just how big this problem is. Most people aren't aware of how often drug diversion happens or its many victims. So, um, we started this nonprofit to raise that awareness and to hopefully reduce through best practices and reporting and awareness the amount

of diversion that happens. And uh in your prior career in Vistics of Wall as Cluer, what you were associated with the sort of same same issue. So what was the sort of what was that uh company doing? What was the technology involved there to to help this problem? Yeah, that was a company I started uh called Investics Corporation and we had software that tracked inventory including medications across the supply chain. Um and what we discovered is it was really good at detecting when people divert drugs

because it was tracking all the handoffs uh of the drug starting from when it was purchased by a hospital and then delivered into different care areas and eventually administered to a patient. Um, and that software we found was really good at taking data hospitals already have like electronic health record data and uh discovering detecting when people in that facility are stealing drugs. So that's how I really got exposed to drug diversion. I didn't know about the field until our software

was able to detect the diversion. And the more I learned about it, the more I realized that most drug diversion goes undetected. uh and technology like this could be a part of what we could use to reduce the amount of drug diversion. Um so as as I was talking to various stakeholders both on the private side and the public side you know it occurred to me the best software in the world is not going to be useful if people aren't trying to prevent diversion or investing uh in technologies like ours to detect the

diversion. Um and that's when uh particularly public stakeholders like people I knew at the Centers for Disease Control said um what we really need is a public private partnership that could bring innovative private technology and uh leading healthcare organizations to the table alongside of the public organizations like the CDC or law enforcement uh or lensure boards at the state level so that collectively we could have a shared perspective of the problem and come up with best solutions possible to reduce it. All right. Well,

show me a little you've got the why don't you dig up the website um the website for healthcare diversion.org and show me a bit about what's on it and then uh you've also built a database um of basically of of of criminal activity for one of a better word. Um uh so show me show me what you've built together and tell me give us a little bit of a tour here. Sure. Sure. So hopefully you're seeing my screen. Yep. So welcome anybody listening to visit our website at healthcare diversion.org.

Uh this is your homepage our homepage and describes our mission as a 501c3 public private partnership. Um you mentioned Matthew you know criminal activity. I I do want to point out that many of the people who are diverting um uh are themselves victims of diversion. you know, they never hoped to become addicted or develop a substance use disorder when they started diverting. So, um, we tend to think of them as victims of diversion. Um, you know, when you're taking these controlled substances, uh, your brain chemistry

changes. It's very very difficult to avoid finding the next dose. And so, absolutely, I mean, I think, you know, uh, criminal activity is I mean, it is a crime what is being committed in most cases. However, you know, obviously there are ways of treating and dealing with people in this situation. I'm not trying to say that I'm I'm I'm a big uh I'm a big one for the reform of how we treat uh people with substance use disorders in this country. H having said that, you know, you you there are many

incidences that you've uh you you've so show us a bit about this. Sure. So, uh currently we have 684 incidents in our database. You'll see those in a second on a map. Um, and you can see we're all about collaborating, raising awareness, educating on best practices, and hopefully preventing diversion in the future. Um, uh, in our database, you can actually search by different types of clinicians, pharmacists, nurses, etc. Uh, and you can also drill down into different types of diversion like

tampering. Um, and on our website, I'll show you in a second, you can also report an incident. If you're aware of an incident that's not in our database, we encourage you to report that. Um, and I'll talk about how that is received inside the website and then potentially published. Um, I do want to give a quick shout out to our advisory board. Uh, we owe a lot to the folks on our advisory board. I mentioned earlier we're a public private partnership. Um, and if you visit this this page on our advisory

board, you'll see we got people on the public side like representatives from the office of the at Indiana attorney general. uh the private side like uh retired executives from hospitals and health systems uh or people that are working in leading health care organizations trying to reduce diversion. Uh and we've got dozens of these people that over the years have given us great perspective on how we can come together uh and reduce drug diversion. Um so on to the incidents. Um I mentioned earlier you can report an

incident on our website. We have many volunteers that report incidents to us. They find them through a variety of sources. could be a local news channel, nurse caught stealing drugs at county medical. Uh could be a report of somebody who's been convicted at the state or federal level. Uh or it could be somebody working in a healthc care facility and maybe they've told management nothing's been done about it. So they can report it to us. Uh and in some jurisdictions and for some types of

diversion, we'll forward that to the appropriate folks um on the law enforcement or lure side for investigation. Um, and this is the form they can fill out uh to tell us what they know about the diversion. Uh, and including any public sources that are available. Um, we'll only publish something that's been reported if we can verify it with a trusted third party. Um, and even if we can verify it, if someone's been accused, say, but not convicted or found uh to to be worthy of discipline from an administrative

review, we'll deidentify uh the names from someone if, say, they're accused but not yet convicted. So, that's where the reports come from, the uh volunteers we have around the country, as well as people that are reporting on our website uh anonymously. Uh, and after it's all been reported and scrubbed and verified, deidentified as necessary, that's how you can see it in our database. Um, here's a map of the US. Um, and we have uh 600 plus incidents, at least one from every state

and quite a few coming from international locations as well. So, let let me guess. I mean 600 instance sounds like a lot but if it's one in 10 of every clinician you know there's thousands of thousands we don't hear and obviously some of them never get you don't know never happen but there presumably others that for whatever reason are not reported there is there any other systematic system of reporting this kind of stuff you know yeah well two points there number one our hundreds

is just a tiny tiny drop in the bucket or the ocean, so to speak. Um, as I mentioned earlier, most diversion goes undetected, so it's not known at all. Um, in fact, sadly, many cases that are detected are not reported as they should be. Um, if a hospital detects diversion, they're required by law to report that. Uh, but many don't uh for whatever reason. Maybe they're embarrassed, maybe they want to avoid the publicity. Um, so only the ones a bit like accounting firms not reporting fraud, right? Then

you know, you don't you don't want to hear about it until it becomes Enron, right? Yes. Yes. Um, and then even those that report it, our database only has a tiny fraction of when you say reporting it, they may report it to licensing boards or local law enforcement or whatever. Is there is there in there's no other national way of of sort of sucking this data up? That's right. It's really uh uh run by states or local public health authorities. There are types of diversion that are investigated uh at

the federal level. A great example are tampering cases. That's where someone takes the medication and replaces it with something else like putting tap water in and where the fentanyl used to be. Um, and since the Tylenol uh poisonings years ago, uh, the Food and Drug Administration has uh law enforcement investigators that will investigate tampering cases. But, um, if it's non-tampering, uh, it's almost always investigated at the state level by say an appropriate lensure board of nursing, pharmacy, medical board, right?

And who knows what the FDA will be getting up to after they fired half their staff, whatever they're doing next week. Yeah. And I'm not aware if cuts have impacted the Food and Drug Administration's Office of Criminal Investigation, but that's the only um group that's handling diversion of tampering. And I should also mention the DEA is also responsible for enforcing the Federal Controlled Substances Act. So they'll often get involved when diversion is happening for controlled

substances. Right. Right. So dive in and show us show us some examples from the map. Yeah. Yeah. So, a couple that I think are relevant. Uh, some of your uh viewers might have heard of a really uh recent case that was in Connecticut at Yale New Haven a reproductive case. Uh, this was a nurse who plead guilty to tampering with fentanyl vials. Um, and it led to a podcast I think even you've seen explaining what happened to these patients. They went in for procedures. uh I think it was egg collection as part

of reproductive procedures and instead of getting the fentanyl that would be necessary for that procedure they got um uh water um and some of them even woke up during the procedure and told the clinicians they were in pain and people didn't believe them. So this is an example just to illustrate how this works on our website. You can not only see all the reports on the map, uh you can even see whether patient lawsuits, uh where they're patient infections, patient deaths based on the symbol

inside of the dot on the map. And orange are healthc care facilities uh that are not hospitals, red are healthcare facilities that are hospitals. Um and of course, we can click to drill down and see more details on this case, and it's going to pull up what our database knows about it. and also links to thirdparty websites that we can see. Um so here's the headline, nurse admits stealing fentanyl at two clinics, patients sue. Um you can see um the type of facility. If the person's been

convicted criminally or disciplined by a lure board, we will put their name on there uh if it's verifiable through trustworthy third parties. Um and we'll also even put uh publicly available news reports about the incident. So, that group I mentioned from the FDA, they have a press release on their website when the person pleaded guilty to doing this diversion. Um, here's uh the sentencing for that nurse. They were sentenced to years in prison. Um, and there's also public u available news

reports about that incident. So, that's the kind of information that we provide for any one incident that's in the database. Um, any questions on that first example? Yeah. No, I think I mean we'll we'll we'll we'll talk about this in more general terms, but as you mentioned, there's a lawsuit involved in this one, right? Which uh you know, and we'll get to this, but there are real not just consequences for the one time that get caught, but there are consequences for the organization for

not having this under control. And we'll talk uh I think you'll show me a couple more examples. So, we can talk a bit more about what organizations can do and why they should do it. So, let's uh bring shelves that. But, I mean, this case obviously got a lot of publicity. It was an NPR series of podcasts about it, but you know, literally was women waking up in the middle of, you know, having their eggs harvested in unimaginable pain and being told, "No, no, they're you're making it up." And it

took a number of them to sort of get together just to all complain at the same time before somebody went and figured out what was going on. And then obviously you have a lawsuit, which uh well, Yale has a big endowment, so I can afford the lawsuit. Okay, I'm kidding. Uh but show us this Oregon case that is pretty interesting. Sure. So another case you see has this uh symbol in Medford, Oregon. This is really tragic. Uh here patients were actually killed as a result of drug diversion. At least two

have been killed because a nurse replaced fentanyl with unsterile tap water and then that was infused into the patients. Um and that's resulted in many lawsuits uh at least a million dollars uh sought in damages. Um and it's really tragic because the number of patients injured or killed is probably higher than what's known. Um and of course this is horrific u it's also horrific for the institution where the and these patients died of an infection or something. I mean if you got dirty tap water or Yeah, that's

exactly right. Yeah. And these were these were found after the families um uh were informed uh that they died of infection. But it took quite a while to understand where the infection had happened, what had been the root cause. And it was a single nurse who was working at this particular regional medical center uh that was diverting in a particularly dangerous way and it led to patients dying. Yeah. Yeah, I mean and that's just a obviously a tragic thing that happens number one and also number number two,

you know, it's it's hard to figure out because you've got, you know, there are obviously hospital infections and and and and hospital acquired illnesses and what have you which happen in the course of hospitals and there's a whole patient safety movement completely irrelevant, you know, irrespective of the drug diversion issue, you know, it's still working on that and it hasn't, you know, and we still have one of those issues. the figure it out was actually probably pretty hard.

Yeah. Um and um I've actually worked on our advisory board. We have the folks that figure out the cause of these infections uh from the Centers for Disease Control. Uh and it's a pattern sadly that's repeated in many places. Sometimes one clinician will work in multiple facilities um and injure patients along the way. Do you know do you know in this case or other cases uh how they actually tracked it compared to you know any other type of in infection that fatal infection you know might have

been sepsis or whatever that came from something else. Yeah. I'm not familiar with this case but I know the specifics of other cases like the person diverting might have a bloodborne disease like hepatitis C. Yeah. um and they're actually able to match the virus that's infecting the patients and see that they all came from a single strain of the virus. Uh and then they'll uh collect samples from the people who might be diverting and they can tell that the virus matches the person diverting the

virus is the same as the person who was infected by the diver. Well, this is like the cold cases you hear about on the true crime podcasts where you're trying to track down the DNA from a bunch of people who were in the area with the original suspect. Incredible. Um, fantastic. But there's another case as well you want to show me. So, when you uh could go to that one. Um, yeah. One one other I think those two cases are are good examples, sad examples of what can happen with tampering where

someone's diverting for their own use. Uh, diversion also happens uh for profit. Um, in my hometown of Atlanta, there was a particularly challenging case that over the course of five years, two pharmacy technicians stole more than two million doses uh from an Emory hospital in downtown Atlanta. Uh, these folks were doing it entirely for profit. There was one person in the in the uh offices that was ordering uh and a second person uh was receiving those on the receiving dock, but instead of stocking them into the hospital, they

wheeled them out to their car. Uh and it was distributed through organized crime throughout the southeast. Uh coding, cough medicine, uh Xanax, hydrocodone tablets. Um and it was several years before the technicians were detected. Um so this is a type of diversion that's u uh particularly uh sad because it leads to you know these drugs being available in our communities which leads to untold tragedies and addiction and overdoses um and it's done for profit uh and and particularly um tragic when when people are stealing

these quantities of drugs. So I mean you got to ask right and this is back and we can probably and if we're ready to to to move on to the sort of wider conversation in you know you've got tracking people down via strains of appitis fee but in this case 2 million doses of you know these medications disappearing from the hospital hospital which should have been there you know did what kind of controls and you've talked about looking at medical records and seeing you know finding people with

with infections and what have you to you know to try and understand where there might be diversion in the system where it looks like drugs aren't being effective or whatever. But what kind for something like this which you'd think would be in a sort of supply chain management system. Um what kind of controls were going on here and how did it take five years for this to be discovered? Yeah. Um and I wasn't involved with this hospital at the time. Um but there was you can summize. Yeah.

there was a there was a lack of accounting controls to confirm that what was being paid on invoices from the wholesaler had in fact been received into the hospital. Um to the credit of the accounting department, they put in a new accounting system and that's what eventually caused this theft to be detected. Uh but it had been going on for 5 years before that system was put in place and it went on undetected that long. So, uh, I mean, essentially they they'd had, you know, they paid they

paid for medication or they hadn't or they either had or hadn't paid for medic fill in the forms as paying for medication, just didn't show up on the shelves. It didn't show up in the uh in the pharmacy machines and the Pixel machines and those kinds of stuff. And it just took them 5 years before they noticed there was this discrepancy. I mean, I you hear that story of the employee of the Jacksonville Jaguars who ran up a $20 million gambling debt by, you know, fiddling his expenses. you

understand that there are controls. You know, I just I just heard Elon Musk this morning explaining how the federal government, you know, couldn't couldn't couldn't pass an audit and then the Financial Times is saying that well, hang on, Tesla seems to have lost 1.5 billion off it. So, we know this problem happens at a big scale in big private and and uh and public organizations as well. But you think that how how much do you think of this type of diversion for profit is going on compared to the you

know the the the personal use? Yeah, great question. I my experience has been most cases of diversion are done for self-use. Yeah. Or occasionally maybe someone has a loved one who needs that medication uh and they can't buy it, so they steal it. Um but what I've also found is um in a small number of cases, people who are stealing from profit can steal incredibly large quantities before they're detected. Um and um so what I what I found is when I look at the total volume of drugs diverted,

it's probably majority for resale. Uh but if you look at the majority of incidents of diversion, it's majority for self-use. Yeah, that makes a lot of sense. Absolutely. Um all right, wonderful. So this database uh you can report into. It's uh for free on your website. You can go look at it. Um why don't we uh close the close close the demo for a second and talk a bit about uh um talk a bit about you know a couple of things. So we mentioned before in the Yale case this big lawsuit and I think

the Oregon case as well a big lawsuit. Um so that's sort of one reason I think why hospitals should be hospital cells should be getting worried about this. Um how worried are they? Um you've looked at this one. Yeah. Where does this get on the on the radar screen of the senior officials you know in the seauite of these hospitals? Are people really thinking about this or is this like oh well it's lucky it only happens over in that hospital even though you're saying it's actually going on everywhere.

Yeah fair question. Um I think there's a range of maturity when it comes to this issue among hospital leaderships. I I've worked with some teams that are incredibly proactive. um they understand not only the risk to their organization but to their co-workers and their patients. Um and so they'll hire people on staff to try and reduce diversion, detect diversion. They'll invest in technologies and such. Um and I'll give them credit for being proactive. Um in many cases they're that way because

they're aware maybe of a prior diversion that happened either on their watch or at their institution or maybe somewhere they used to work. Um but those are I will say that the fraction of people that I see leading health organizations that are in that category is going up in the seven or eight years that I've been in this field. I think awareness is growing. Um the penalties associated with failing to stop diversion are growing. not only the lawsuits that we've talked a lot about, but

organizations like the DEA will issue fines, um, multi-million dollar fines that are often record highs because that's how the DEA gets headlines and changes behavior, right? Um, so as a result, I think also our nation's opioid uh, epidemic, overdose epidemic, has raised awareness that we need to take uh, better control of these kind of medications. So, long story short, I'm seeing more and more leaders in these organizations doing the right thing to try and reduce diversion or or detect it

if it's happening. Uh, but sadly, it's not every leadership team still. Um, I still see leadership teams that are just hoping it doesn't happen on their watch or even worse, they're saying, "Well, it would never happen here. Our people would would never divert when their people are just like anybody else's people in terms of the risks and the and the uh the the dangers of being around these drugs." So, that's part of why we're so active at our nonprofit is to

raise awareness that you have to be vigilant. You've got to be proactive. Uh otherwise, it's going to happen. It's going to damage your reputation. It's going to hurt your co-workers, hurt your patients. Yeah. And let's not forget that for those historians in the crowd, the uh the father the the father of modern surgery in this country, Halstead, right, managed to hide the fact he was a morphine addict his entire career till after he was dead. So you know and I suspect this is going on you

know the we hear a lot about fun you know functional addicts and there's sure there's a lot of this going on amongst people you know who are you would never suspect it from and you know we know that uh addiction substance use disorder doesn't respect intelligence qualifications ethnic boundaries gender you know it's everywhere right um so what give me two things like it's a big threat out there um it's the The awareness is growing but it's not I mean I don't know if you give

it a scale of 1 to 10 on the awareness. So we had a two or we had a five or something 10. When I started maybe one out of five hospitals were really taking this seriously and I think the numbers closer to four out of five now. Okay. So we're we're heading into 70 80%. And then what can hospitals do? We talked a bit about your earlier company which is now part of Walters Clu that that works in this but what what I mean is this is this a supply control is this investigation of the fact is this is

better monitoring of you know using I don't know video and AI of of of uh people of people inies what are the kinds of things that are you're going to start to see more of to deal with this issue um we're seeing more hospitals invest in education of their staff of how common this is right and why if it's happening you're doing this person you're helping this person by reporting it so they can get the help they need with their substance use disorder so I put that in the category of preventative measures

um you're also seeing hospitals that are investing in detecting diversion that might be going on in their facility and that can mean someone working part-time or full-time uh to try and detect diversion that could mean investing in the kind of software that Walters Glue now provides ES that that was originally developed at the company I sold to them a few years ago. Um um so those are the two categories, prevention uh and detection because uh we we always said um if you're not finding diversion in

your facility, it's because you're not looking for it, right? is is the the move towards you know these uh I was reading about the the uh an interesting article about the Vegas mass shooting and not obviously to do with diversion but uh in this case they needed so much stuff so quickly they couldn't have time to get the pix machines and the other you know storage devices open so they were just but in general most hospitals now have got you know a tracking system of pharmacy h how much of sort of surveillance of that and

monitoring of that is is just the data is there and people haven't looked at it or you know are people getting around it or are we having to do more monitoring over the top of those kinds of systems that already there on the sort of detection part? Yeah, that's a great question. Um what we found over the years is each time there's technology to reduce diversion like Pixus machines that are now broadly adopted or their competitors from Omnicell. Yeah. um people who need or want to divert will

find a path around that technology. This is like kids like getting away from this, you know, the parental restrictions on websites and phones. Somehow they figured out a way to be on YouTube. It is, you know, the the the drugs are locked up in the Pixus machine, but you know, I can dispense that drug and claim to have given it to my patient when in fact I pocketed it. Yeah. even going to the point of falsifying the electronic health record to show I gave the patient the medication um or the tampering cases are

good examples of how you can get around the Pixus machine. So I mean there's obviously stuff that goes on I suspect I mean I'm seeing many many more and I don't know if this is connected yet. I've seen many more hospitals now starting to use video and AI monitoring of patient activity and you know I assume it's going to you know in general staff are going to have to assume more surveillance of their activity especially if it's w this diversion is widespread as you're

thinking about plus staff are being surveiled for a bunch of other reasons including you know staff safety and and also you know workflow stuff and even the basics of trying to figure out where the hell that wheelchair is right you're starting there's there's a bunch more work going on within healthcare facilities to try to figure out you the the be up there on the mechanics and obviously as computer and AI you know operation stuff gets more sophisticated you'd assume this gets involved I I uh

uh so so with that as a background what is the future for your organization you're not a very large nonprofit I don't yeah I don't see you with the uh the multi-billion dollar endowment all the rest of it but uh tell me a bit about how you're um getting funded and how you think that your particular nonprofit healthcare diversion can actually help in this overall manner. Yeah. Uh we are volunteers and we do things quite u on a low budget. But um what's been exciting is we have started

to influence not only behavior in these organizations, the healthcare organizations that I mentioned, but we're also starting to see a potential changes on the public policy side. Um, we're working with organizations that are drafting what's called a model state drug law to prevent drug diversion in healthcare. Um, because as I mentioned, this is largely run by the states like lure boards. Um, and some states are leaders in certain areas. Um, others are laggers and so what we're trying to do

is publish the right set of model laws that states could follow and adopt so that they're more likely to address this problem in the correct ways. um for example uh providing paths for clinicians to come forward and uh admit diversion and hopefully get help with their substance use disorder before they hurt themselves or their patients. So um that's probably the biggest area that I'm optimistic our nonprofit can help with as a public private partnership. um we're seeing that our country in certain

states does better and how can we spread those best practices on the public side and how can we sped spread those best practices on the private side as well. Fantastic. So if you're in a hospital or or a health system or you know you're just seeing this and you're interested in getting involved in supporting what uh or or figuring out how to how this works uh what what's what are the ways that one could get involved? Yeah, so you can learn a lot from our website. There's also great nonprofits that we

support uh in this field. Two in particular I'll mention. One is the National Association of Drug Diversion Investigators, NATI. Uh and they hold a conference every year on this topic. Um and similarly there's another nonprofit uh we support called the International Healthc Care Facility Association, IHFDA, and they also host an annual conference and their website also has great information you can learn more about. And I see people can track you down and if and uh you know you're happy

to talk more about this topic I hope. Absolutely. There's a contact us form on our website. We welcome suggestions. Uh we're always help looking for volunteers to support us. All right. Brilliant. So I've been talking with Tom Knight. He is the uh founder chairman of healthcare diversion.org which uh you know is spotting shining a spotlight on that uh interesting and probably not talked about enough issue of drug diversion um in hospitals and healthcare facilities. Hey Tom, thank you very much for your

time. Thank you.