Title: Tom Kelly, Heidi Health
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=d4ou9OOqilg
Language: en
Duration: 00:20:15
Upload Date: April 4, 2026

Transcription:

Matthew Holt here at GCB spotlight and   I'm here with Tom Kelly. Tom is the CEO   of Heidi Health which has a we are in   their booth which is very very very uh   say off yellow I was going to say   colors. Um Heidi is uh another of the   ambient scribing ambient intelligence   companies that is sort of taken over the   world and literally you guys have taken   over the world because you are probably   the most internationally focused of all   of them.

>> Yeah.   >> Uh not to mention you started in a weird   form British colony called Australia   that some people have heard of.   >> Exactly.   >> Um tell us just a bit about the origins   of the company and uh you know how you   got from there to the 100 plus countries   you're in now.   >> Okay. Yeah. So hi I'm Tom.

Uh I'm a   doctor by background. So I'm an   Australian doctor. Uh I was a vascular   surgery registar which is a resident   here basically trainee before Heidi. Um   I studied machine.   >> So another example of the taxpayer   spending a lot of money to train you up   to do something else.   >> Fix fix the system you know.

Um   >> they say gone.   >> So yeah so I saw firsthand like the the   kind of decision making that doctors   would make the documentation burden. Um   we have a public system in in Australia.   So, you know, waiting lists, wasted   appointments and time always felt   particularly painful when you got people   coming in from the country for hours and   then they maybe could have been dealt   with online or or with an AI system.

Um,   so basically from my experience as a   doctor thought that AI would definitely   have a role to play in the future of   healthcare practice. Lots of different   areas like history taking, clinical   reasoning, describing was an interesting   use case, uh, even follow-ups and care   coordination and other things.

Um, so   started Heidi in 2021 as a as a we   didn't even have a product. It was just   like I'm going to build AI tools for   doctors. We'll figure out what the right   thing is. And then uh obviously co   happened, built lots of different things   in Australia. Fast forwarding by end of   2023, we'd really landed on like   scribing was the best product that   doctors really loved.

Um, we we launched   in Australia, the UK, Canada initially   just with online ads, great YouTube   videos, showing people how to use the   product. I'd say the main point of   difference with Heidi is people can just   get started for free. So, there's a free   scrapping product that you can you can   use.

Um, and then people would use it,   hopefully have a good reaction,   introduce us to their organization, and   we would sell to them from there. Um and   yeah, now we're we're I'd say the   dominant player outside of the US um   across Australia, New Zealand, Canada,   UK, even some markets in the EU starting   as well.

And then in the US in the last   say two years um we've gone from a cold   start to having around four health   systems using Heidi now sitewide and a   lot of SMB midm market practices as   well.   >> All right. So pretty pretty interesting   start there. um scribing has changed a   lot right a you know you started before   there was an LLM or commonly available   one chat GPD etc but then there's also   you know u as we mentioned in the room   here there are now I don't know six to   eight really wellunded scribing   companies and god knows how many others   that may or may not be part of big EMRs   or or whatever right and most of the   scribing companies now you know it's   kind of like the the tool that's gone   from being completely magic three years   ago to being kind of almost like an   after commodity now. Um, what do you   think the uh the business of Heidi is in   terms of now and going forward?   >> Yeah, I think it depends by country and

by region. So,   >> so ultimately I think it's about   building an AI partner for clinicians   that does all the work around the work.   So, if we succeed in 5 years a doctor   uses Heidi like an engineer uses cursor   today. they predominantly turn on this   natural language interface that accesses   the record and does all their work for   them and they don't need to do a hell of   a lot to get that done.

So scribing to   me was always the way to get the context   of what happened in the visit and then   you take that information and you go do   other things with it. So orders, tasks,   but also comms like communicating with   patients, other doctors, uh drafting   things in the record. And we've always   had a separate almost like a third space   where we take people to Heidi's UI and   basically let clinicians use it like   they use a consumer AI tool.

So that's   actually quite different perspective   from most of the tools here. Most of the   tools here are I would say a bit screwed   because their proposition two years ago   was we're the most integrated with   insert medical record. That was never   our value proposition. Our value   proposition was doctors love Heidi the   most because we built a tool round up   like a dedicated AI platform and lots of   different features, templates, a   community, an ability to chat and ask   for anything that you like.

And actually   the CMOS didn't like that because we   were too flexible. It's like we had too   many different possibilities almost. It   was like a data problem and a governance   problem to give their doctors Heidi. So   they very often wanted like well can't   you just be more integrated? can't you   just be like in incredibly embedded   inside of my medical record? And I think   for companies that were building   scribes, it was a very um you know   enchanting idea to build up lots of   revenue being the most integrated.

But I   always thought it was a bad idea for a   couple reasons. One, these companies   will succeed so far as they   disintermediate the record, not   reinforce its position in the clinical   workflow. Like the doctor doesn't like   the record generally. They don't want to   spend time being a data entry person.   They want Heidi to do that work.

So in   order for us to do that in being   literally in the record is like a is us   failing in doing our job. Um and that's   how we differentiate ourselves as a   business today. I do think a lot of   describing companies are in trouble   because that value proposition is not   going to last when the renewals market   comes around and their value prop was   where the most integrated in Epic or   Athena or whichever.

Well, Epic has one   and Athena has one. So, what's what's   the reason we're still picking you 2   years later when a contract comes up for   annual? Anyone who picked Heidi picked   us because their doctors built 1700   templates, explainers in the format of a   Taylor Swift song, um like projects with   different like uploaded files and all   sorts of different stuff that doesn't   happen in the record.

So if you think of   like the ven diagram of like the record   work, your overall work as a doctor,   Heidi overlaps most of the tools live   inside the record. And so those tools I   agree are mostly screwed. I think Heidi   will live because we have a lot of other   work to do for them. Calling patients   coordinating care evidence is a good   example what we just launched bringing   external third party sources into   decision-m so I see us competing   ultimately in the US with open evidence   doximity companies like that because   they're they're building the tool that   the clinicians want to bring to work for   themselves in the rest of the world   scribing is much more um much more comp   has to be more comp   a class one medical device and so that   it's there's a bit more remote because   you have to do a lot of engineering   postmarket surveillance and other things   that mean that it's not just anyone who   can turn on an LLM becomes a scribe. Um   and that's the other thing I I think

there's a lot more engineering than   people generally respect. Like it's very   easy to do a prototype which makes life   hard as a company in the space but if   you're using this every visit like every   scenario Wi-Fi goes out your phone has   no 4G the audio is really challenging   it's hard to make it really really good   and so that's that's still an area where   we ask companies to do real bake offs   like just put them side by side like use   for a day use insert other for a day I   guarantee you you're going to lose 5 to   10% of sessions which doesn't sound like   much but if you lose 5% of sessions   that's 1 in 20 notes you have no   information for like you spoke for 30   minutes, you didn't write anything down   and now you have nothing. So it's a   disaster like small errors are disasters   in this product category. That's why I   actually think so basically I think in   the end there will be a few of these AI   platforms that persist. They will look   like cursor for the doctor. 

They will have the ability to do a lot of work for   them and being just a form filler in the   record is going to be quantized and   already is you could argue. Um and 

that's how we differentiate.   >> All right. So you're arguing that it's a   combination of engineering but also   expans uh and that you know there is   this UK evidence there's no evidence   whatever doc calls there   GBW yeah um right and that's it's but   that's really about information support   as much right the other part of this   which you know is is and you mentioned   it but I I'm still keen speaking to   somebody who actually uses these   services uh to figure out is how does   this relate of you know patient care and   patient communication right because that   seems to be the the big piece that most   health systems in the US but also   elsewhere struggle with how do you   actually sort of integrate the patient   part of this the patients have to do a   lot of stuff for their own care um and   there is you know now we have office   after visit summaries etc etc but I mean   how do you think that plays out and how   do you think he is going to play in the   world where there are a 

bunch of people   talking about agentic tasks that are Tom or is this an extension of like Beth   Israel or like who who's am I talking   to? So, so the where it has worked is   where let's say we did a scribing visit.   At the end, you get a patient summary.   We text you the patient summary and I   say as the doctor, save that number,   that number is Heidi.

Heidi is an   extension of me. So, Heidi's going to   reach out to you. You'll see in the   summary there are a few tasks. Heidi's   going to check in and make sure that you   get those tasks done. you have any   questions about your condition,   questions about how to get those things   done, you can text Heidi or talk to her   through the app and it works.

I think   that's like the best way to introduce   this idea. Um, and I think it varies   like not every patient feels comfortable   with the idea of having an AI that that   engages with them. But for the group   that do having the context and having   evidence behind the decision-m that's   why we launch these three products comms   needs evidence to communicate to   patients.

You also need access to the   record and documentation and ordering   ability which is scribe. So these three   things are the components that let you   do anything in healthcare and that's why   when we do our marketing we call it an   AI partner or an AI care partner and   every organization and doctor or   practice will want something slightly   different and that's totally fine.

They   can decide what they want Heidi to be   for them. And so the scribe like   increasingly is just a way to get Heidi   the information. It's not about us   really monetizing the scribe. It's just   if you want your AI partner to know what   happened in the visit that you had to   use it in the visit otherwise you're   just reading a note which is not the   same as having the whole transcript of   the conversation.

Um like I want to know   your family like the context of your   injury why you came in not just day two   post meniscus repair blah blah blah blah   like the note it does not equal   empathetic AI care partner. Um so yeah I   think stitching these things together is   the way to build this agentic future.   It's really easy to do demos.

This is   the hard thing about this industry. Like   there will be a million companies in   every category. But when it comes to   like brass tax of how many of your   patients as a percentage are using these   tools, it's like sub one 2%. Um yeah.   >> Yeah. I think it takes a while and I   I've had this experience a lot lately.

Uh there's   >> there's still a lot of burden placed   upon patients to figure out especially   the US system and probably it's better   in other in other places somewhere. Um I   don't know how the Likenstein health   system is doing but but um you know you   get referred to somewhere there's a   still a ton of demands to say you need a   prior off you need a referral you need a   you need to fax me this thing   >> I had an echo cardiogram which I spent   three different uh three different calls   trying to find trying to get them to   actually pay attention to the fact I   knew this I really did have a referral   and a prior off which I already had by   the way a lot of people don't have that   >> and and then five separate calls in 37   minutes to actually get the damn thing   scheduled and frankly I might as well   have given up although then I wouldn't   have found out I had an aortic stenosis   blah blah blah so lots of issues going   on um but my my sense is that you know   we that's a 

big amount of crap   administrative crap both patients and the system patients doctors and also   between doctors and other other doctors   and doctors and their system and that   you know that's going to be a big area   for micrometry it's going to be a big   area for for companies like yours to   sort of figure out the more and more   that gets.   >> All right, let's get down the brass tax.

Uh, which parts do you get paid for? How   do you get paid?   >> Yeah. So, so we're just an application   that doctors pay for. So, so this is one   of the things we're launching with   evidence. You'll notice the word   independent in the advertising is   because we don't monetize the free   products with farmer ads because in rest   of world some places it's it's illegal   and in most in the rest of the world   it's just unfair.

>> Yeah. Um, and I think it's irresponsible   like exactly what you said. If you think   that these tools are ultimately going to   make decisions with patients or help   coordinate care, do you want that system   to be funded by farmer? Like it feels   insane to me. Like definitely unsafe,   certainly unethical.

So, uh, that's part   of our soap box for evidence is that we   think you can still have great free   tools. You just ultimately charge the   clinicians for certain product. Like you   limit certain things. It's like yeah,   you can use free evidence site sources,   but if you want to integrate with that   medical record, sure, that's a paid   product. You pay us 35 bucks a month.

If   you want to use a scribe with any   template that you like, yep, that's 100   bucks a month, but without it, you can   use it for free. So, we've always had   that premium model. Um, mainly because   it's just the best way to get to the   doctors. Like there's it's very hard to   get to organizations. We come to   conferences like this, but ultimately we   serve the doctors.

So having free tools   is how we get to the organization   because they say, "Oh, this is very   cool, but I'm not allowed to use this in   my hospital. Tom, can you go talk to my   boss?" And that's how we sell.   >> So that's a a good way of starting   there. Obviously, it's tough to break   into any market. There's obviously a   bunch of players.

We mentioned the EMRs,   etc. that you know, and you have these   organizations which have got sales which   typically have had sales uh cycles   measured in, you know, years. How how   has it been for you? You mentioned you   have four systems in the US but tell me   how me how that process is going.   >> Yeah, I think it it actually so it   worked better than I ever expected.

So I   thought that we would be a mostly rested   world company when I first started   because in the rest of the world   individual doctors are generally like   contractors or they still have their own   autonomy.   >> So so for example in the UK we had a   private cardiologist who also had a post   as the head of cardiology at Cambridge.

He used Heidi in private practice and   then he brought us into the whole   hospital and they still tended but we   ended up winning a deal for all of   Cambridge and so the motion works   incredibly well like individual doctor   helps you win in any organization. Here   it's a little more tricky. It still   works but it usually seeds in specialty   departments or areas where one of the   other scribes is not succeeding.

So in   Beth Israel's case we won the urology   department. We had one particularly   prolific urologist called uh David Kanes   and he built all these templates for   prostate cancer and all these different   things on Heidi. His whole department   chose us and they were actively piloting   a couple other tools.

They reached out   to us and said we cannot literally could   not convince urologists to use this   other tool. Like why why do they like   Heidi? We don't get it. Like it's not   integrated. They they have to remember   to copy paste. Like this should be way   worse but they seem to like it. And it's   back to what I was saying before, like   we're just more consumercentric.

Like   we're more flexible. I'm not I'm selling   to them today, but I'm not ultimately   waking up in the morning worrying about   what the CMIO needs me to do. I'm   worried about what the clinicians need   to achieve their work. Um so it's been   it's been going better than I expected.   Like in the first year, we run three   large health systems.

Um and in SBI is   obviously a lot easier like practices   just picky and will buy it from us. Um   and I think that for the other   enterprise health systems I really like   the idea of channel partners. So we   announced the R1 partnership uh   yesterday. Um so so they obviously have   this incredible RCM business and and   seat at the table with a lot of seuite   um that maybe haven't heard of Heidi and   so by integrating a lot of their   technology into the visit in that   urology consult with Dr.

canes where you   can say hey did you know that your   health system you get denied for I don't   know bladder cancer uh you got   cystoscopy because of these reasons you   should really ask about these questions   to get make sure you don't get denied or   whatever that real time prior off is um   and so for R1 it makes sense they get a   seat with the doctor for us it makes   sense we get all this data we're never   going to go after um and so yeah I think   I'm interested to see in the next few   years I think a good value proposition   in a world where there's a million   scribes is if you use tidy, you make   more money per visit. Like that's a   simple value proposition. But unlike   every scribe that's trying to build it   all themselves, we just chose to partner   with the best in in the business uh from   the outset.   >> All right. Okay, that's cool. Give me uh   so interesting market development. Um   give give me the sort of the the nuts   and bolts of the company. You said you

started in 21. How much money you   raised? How many people you got? Where   are they?   >> Give me give me some of the metrics.

>> Yeah. So in total US we've raised 75   million   >> almost nothing by today's stand. Yeah   exactly. Is that that from mostly   Australian investors where where money   come from?   >> Yeah. So we did a seed round that was   back when I was still working full-time   as a doctor   >> uh in 2021.

Then we did another small   round in Australia um from some super   funds and Blackbird is our main   investor. They invested in Canva and um   that was their claim to fame. Then   headline um in 2024 um so that was   headline based out of SF they also have   international like they they invested in   the US but they have they're positive   some of that rest of the world um and   then 72 most recently um was uh 65   million uh round then in the series B   and yeah uh 400 people the main product   and engineering HQ is still in Melbourne   and Sydney in the east coast of   Australia but we have product and   engineering teams now in London and in   SF um and go to market offices in New   York um in London.   >> How many people in America service?   >> Uh yeah, give or take like like probably   60 or 70 something like that.   >> What and if things go well, what's that   going to be in uh two years?   >> Oh, I I definitely think it could could

grow to be as big as the main company,   like you know, a few hundred people.   Hard to say. It depends a little bit on   how we go with with growing the market,   basically.   >> Yeah. Well, I mean, you know, uh I was   just talking to a to a a Brit outside   who's lecturing there. He says, you   know, he has this job and he talks to   Brit British entrepreneurs which has,   you know, here's the American healthcare   system.

5 to 18% of the GDP of a much bigger GDP   look better at 10 or 11% everywhere   else. And yeah, that's why eventually   show up here. That's why you're here.   Fantastic.   >> All right, I'm talking to Tom Kelly.   He's the CEO of Heidi Health. Tom,   thanks for your time. Thanks, Matt.

