Title: Tracy DeTomasi, Callisto
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pJ1k89aVLYg
Language: en
Duration: 00:35:55
Upload Date: May 16, 2025

Transcription:

Matthew Halt. Uh, this is another THCB spotlight. It's been a while and I'm catching up with a slightly unusual tech company called Kalisto, who uh have been around about on THCV and Health 2.0 some years ago, but I haven't caught up for a while. Uh, this is Tracy Damasi. is the CEO um of Kalisto which is a nonprofit which well Tracy let why don't you explain it it's a nonprofit that does a very specific task for victims of sexual violence yes exactly what is that what are you up what are you doing what

is that task tell us a bit about the flavor of what Kalisto is doing yeah I mean essentially Kalisto is working to connect survivors of repeat perpetrators and so what that means is that if a survivor wants to find out If their perpetrator has harmed someone else, which most per or which most survivors do, we have built technology to help them do that in a secure fashion without them publicly having to come forward. Okay. So this is obviously linked to the fact that most uh perpetrators of sexual violence, rape,

sexual assault, all the stuff, especially those in uh um organizations like institutions like colleges and um and workplaces, a lot of those people, you know, um the data and I don't have the exact data you might have, it shows that a lot of the incidents are from a very a relatively small minority usually of men but not exclusively men who are repeat offenders and Of course, you know, the typical victim doesn't know about that, may have a suspicion about it. And this is a way that to so that so

that uh victims uh survivors can record that without necessarily having to go down the legal challen channel straight away or to talk to exactly school. just for a second explain what is the situation for people who are uh having to go down the you know it's you know why would they not want to go down the path of reporting yeah so just to go back a little bit into what you said so right now our our technology is available to anybody in the US and its territories with aedu so we're really focused on college campuses and

in college campuses 90% of sexual assaults are committed by serial perpetrators who on average offense six times while in college. And so right now the systems are not connecting those survivors. And if we can get down to connecting two survivors after two assaults um and we can hold that perpetrator accountable, we would reduce before getting to that six assaults on average, we would reduce college sexual assault by 59%. So that's the premise that we're working on. And right now, less than 10% of people report to Title

9 or to police if they've been assaulted. So, it's one of the most underreported crimes ever. And there's a lot of reasons for that. Um, often survivors are not believed. They're not believed by their friends, their family, and and in particular the the justice systems that is meant to protect them. So, there are a lot of there are a lot of really good law enforcement out there, but there's a lot of really bad law enforcement out there. When they report, they're asked what they're

wearing, how much were they drinking, was it your fault, and they're they're blamed for the crime that was committed. Bas still back in this 90 1960s or whatever it were, or 50s for half. Absolutely. Well, I mean, it was only until the '9s that they changed the law to say that um you didn't have to fight back in order for it to be considered rape. Yeah. And we know that from trauma, most survivors freeze if they've experienced sexual assault. So, they're not going to fight back because it's a

biological response to trauma and to assault to freeze when what happens, which because of the misconceptions of sexual assault, a lot of survivors don't even identify that what happened to them was was sexual assault or rape because what we see as rape is somebody jumping out of the bushes or in a parking garage and coming to attack us. And it's really, really brutal. It's not your your best friend's roommate. It's not somebody that you know on campus. It's not your significant other that does it,

but 80 to 90% of sexual assault survivors, particularly on college campuses, know their perpetrator, which is why Kalista works because you do have to have the identity of your perpetrator in order to use our system. All right. So, um, that's a great idea. How, uh, how has this been adopted at college campuses? Um uh you know uh when when uh I remember when Jeff Lad who was CEO started this the original founding uh CEO started this the goal was to have many you know college campuses were I think obliged to report um is that still

the case how how's the roll out been essentially? Yeah, we've evolved a lot since Jess's initial um uh idea and it's because sexual assault has evolved and she realized a lot of the barriers in that and so her original idea was to sell this technology to title N offices on college campuses in the US for them to have another tool and the matching when the matching happened it went directly to the Title 9 offices and she realized fairly quickly that that wasn't going to work for a variety of reasons.

Some was that the schools didn't want to pay for it. They didn't have the budget. They didn't want to invest in technology. A lot of the different things. Um survivors said that they wanted something beyond before reporting to Title 9. Um some of the survivors who had matched, excuse me. um had also said, you know, the first survivor who matched may have waited 3 6 months and then by that point it was automatically going to title 9 and an investigation would start and that person would not be ready to do an

investigation at that time because of whatever is going on in their life because investigations are very traumatic and very overwhelming and very timeconuming. Um, the other thing that was never said but that we know is that a lot of college campuses don't want to actually identify serial perpetrators because it makes their campus quote unquote look bad when really if they identify more of these serial perpetrators, it shows the public that they're actually doing something about it. because reporting is so low on

college campuses um that they say that the less that the the less um assaults that are happening and being reported the safer the campus which is actually untrue. Uh it just means that they're not dealing with it as well. And so we would have identified a lot of these serial perpetrators who in many cases would cost the universities a significant amount of money if there was enough survivors to come together and collectively sue the the the the universities. You can look at the case of Larry Nasser at Michigan State

University and that Larry Nasser is the um USA gymnastics doctor who was employed by Michigan State University who assaulted over a hundred women and girls and he had been reported numerous times to Michigan State as well as the police over the span of over a decade and he was never held accountable because those systems didn't work. And so, you know, kind of going back to your previous question, a lot of the times people think that sexual assault reporting is like an episode of Law and Order SVU, but that couldn't be further

from the truth. You know, so they think that all of the systems are connected and there's somebody with multiple computer screens looking for the the the suspect and connecting all of the different databases across the country that they might have been a part of. That is not the case at all. Even internal systems are not always connecting these cases because as soon as if you report somebody and that's found unfounded or you didn't finish that or the perpetrator left that school and that case gets closed without being

finished that doesn't come up again if that perpetrator's reported again in off in in many cases. Um, and so there needs to be a different system that's connecting all of this for folks so they can find each other either after they report and it didn't worked, after they reported and it did work, or before they reported and they want to see if it's even worth reporting or that they will be believed because so many sexual assaults happen behind closed doors and there's not a lot of evidence um, beyond

that. you know, even when they have evidence. I mean, I know numerous tales of survivors who have it on video, um, who have it on text message, who have incredible amounts of evidence, and they still cannot get their crimes prosecuted. Um, and so, you know, Jess back in the day really created this this way to help schools, but what we did is take it out of the schools. And so now what happens is that anybody with aedu email address in the US and its territories has free access. And so we do not charge schools. We do not charge

survivors. And this the schools can no longer be a gatekeeper to the system. Now some of the schools really want to partner with us and they want to provide this this uh free resource to their students and their faculty members because again professors and faculty um will also have access to this and they want to do that. And then some schools are not interested in partnering with us or spreading the word for a variety of reasons. But we work with their students or we work in any way possible that we

can with those schools to spread the word. So let's uh take a look at what actually happened. So now I'm I'm uh I've there's been an incident. I've been assaulted whatever I'm you know what I may have heard about Kalisto with social media. I may have not have I may go to the website. What's my experience like? What do I do? Show me show show us what happens next. Yeah. So a lot of times, you know, most people hear about us on social media. So people can follow us at

Kalisto on Instagram um or LinkedIn. U and so a lot of times people are going to come to our website. So this is the homepage of our website and it really just says what we want to do. Want to find out if your perpetrator harms somebody else? With Kalisto, you can. And so they're going to use this sign up button um in order to create an account. And so they have to have that.edu email address to create an account. And we're going to verify that. But then they're going to set up their account with their personal

email address because that.edu is one, it's not confidential, and two, they might lose it after they graduate. And so they're actually going to set up their account with their Gmail or their Outlook or whatever. Um, and then I will take you to what we call Kalisto Vault. So this is our system and this is what the survivor once they sign up will see. Um, I want to make sure that it switched screens. Can you see? Yeah. Okay. Um, and so this is exactly what the survivors will see when they log in for

the first time. And so they if they want to find out if their perpetrators harmed somebody else, they're going to enter into matching. And it's fairly quick and simple. Um, so the first thing they're going to do is say what state the incident occurred in. And that's because um, sexual assault laws vary and sexual assault definitions vary by state. So let's say that they were assaulted in Illinois. They're going to pick Illinois. If it happened outside of the US, there's an option for that. And then

they're going to get hit next. This is going to be the most difficult part for survivors, but we want a survivor to enter in an offender's unique identifier. So, it's a social media handle like X. So, if they have um an X handle, they can enter as many as they want. Let's say it's Instagram. Um, they can enter as many as they want. They can do an email address. They can do a phone number, YouTube, Twitch, whatever the case may be. And we encourage them, you can see up here on

the top, we encourage them to enter as many as they know. Um, because that's going to increase the likelihood of a match. So, the match is only based on getting the same thing. So, two two survivors will have to both be the Instagram or the X. can't you can't you can't there's no there's no system I assume for like saying okay well this is this is Matthew on on Instagram this is Matthew on on on Twitter actually it's easy cuz I'm bled everywhere hopefully it has to be a direct match so it has to

be a Twitter to Twitter match or an Instagram to Instagram match now and presumably all I mean given the this age I think Snapchat and Instagram you know 90% of the yeah most of most of our matches well most of our entries I would say are on Instagram, but we have a variety. People are using all of these and we're consistently adding like we're getting ready to add um Blue Sky and True Social because we know that that those are platforms that are being used more and more. I can think of one

offender on True Social, but that's by the way. Anyway, um um so so so now so now you've done this. Sorry, keep going. So you've done this and that's what we match on. Um and I'll get to that in a second. But then the last thing that you would do is you'd enter your information. So you would enter your name, your the language, so when we reach out to you, we know that we're speaking in the language that that you understand and any um accessibility needs if you have a

disability that would help us when we reach out to you. Then you're going to say what your preferred method of contact is, phone or email, and then you'll enter those in. Mine are already entered because this is the they're already pre-filled because I use this a lot for for demos. Yep. and they're going to review their entry to make sure that it's all right. And then they're going to say that they are entering into matching for themselves and not another person. We're not we don't want to talk

to witnesses. We want to talk to the survivor. Y and then they're going to consent to being contacted by a legal options counselor if um there is a match. And that is no cost to the survivor. The survivor doesn't have to pay anything. And at that point, they submit their entry and that's all they have to do. And then they're list they're they're given a list of resources. And so now I'll explain um I'll stop sharing for a second and I'll explain what happens with that match. So

first of all our system is completely endtoend encrypted. And what that means is that all of our data before it hits our server it's saved in that encrypted state. So it's gets encrypted and then it's saved. Um and so it's impossible to hack into our system. We've had third parties that that have tried unsuccessfully um as part of our security measures and so it's it's really safe and this data is is extremely safe. So as that every day our our matching system is running

in the background um and so if two people put in that same Instagram account of their perpetrator, there's a match. We check that out to make sure that it is indeed a real match. And what we can see at Kalisto is the state where the assault occurred. We can see the um school that the survivor attended and any of those language and accessibility needs. What we can't see is the name or contact information of the survivor and we cannot see the perpetrator's information either. And we've done that

specifically because lists that you can sort through get get sued for defamation and we are not a registry and we are not a list that people can sort through. We are not a warning system. Um we are really about connecting those survivors. So then what we do is that we take that and we assign that case to a legal options counselor who has a different login with a different set of encryption keys and they get to see the entire entry and what they will do. So they are a a confidential advocate that's

protected under legal confidentiality laws and they will reach out to the survivor separately and when the survivor gets contacted by that legal option counselor they have a choice to make and that choice is first to meet with the meet with that person or not. If they choose to meet with that person um they will then say what happened to them. That's the first time the survivor has to say what happened to them because we know that that explaining your story over and over can be retraumatizing. So,

we don't want to put survivors in the position to have to do that unnecessarily. So, they say what happened to them and then they get they ask their questions. What do they want to know? And that legal option counselor will also tell them what are their potential options for a criminal court or a civil case or a title N case or mental health challenges or you know mental health services whatever that case may be. It might even be what are the implications if I blast my perpetrator's name on social media? Like

what are the implications to me? Um and so they go over all of that and then the legal option counselor will talk about meeting with the other person who is matched with them. Um then that's when the survivor has another choice to make. Do they want their information known? Do they want their identity known? And the surv the legal option counselor will go through all of the risks of that. And if all of the survivors or any of the survivors connect the or or consent I should say the the legal option

counselor works to connect them and we'll put them in contact and then it's their their job to pursue healing and justice whatever that means for the survivor which we know that's a variety of things. Some people are going to want to confront the the perpetrator. Some people are just going to want to get therapy and some people are going to want to go to the police or Title 9. What we don't do is investigate what happened and we don't report it. So we don't report to police. We don't report

to Title 9 and we don't report to HR and we don't report because we know that reporting can be very traumatic for survivors and we believe that that's a choice that survivors need to make. That is not a choice that we are going to make. But what we do do is help survivors navigate that and we give them referrals for places within their community that they can go to for mental health help um for Title 9 and we connect with those Title N offices if that's what they choose. But we don't do

any of that without the survivor's consent. And so again, we make sure to put the survivors in the driver's seat. So it is a choice that they have along the way. So if they start the process and they think, "I don't ever want the other person to know who I am. They can still match. They can still know there's a match and they can still get that legal option counseling help without ever then I having to identify themselves. And after they go through all that, if they change their mind and

say, "I actually do want to meet with that other person," they can do that as well. So, a lot of sort of options and possibilities that you're allowing there, but basically Cliff's stopped at this point. You've now referred them on to a the legal options counselor who may refer them to whatever. Um, how does that match? How does that connect back to the idea of identifying uh these these perpetrators who've done things multiple times? Presumably, if this was like every time, you know, the the

original idea of automate essentially automating the the the the issue and bringing up to the university and you know, without the without the reporter, without the survivors having to to basically be involved may or may not have been a been a great idea, but at least that sort of promoted the fact that there was an issue here. Presumably, this could happen. And let's say that any of the survivors said, "I don't want to go through this again. You know, I'm I'm I'm going to I want my own

path of counseling or whatever." Um, you're not you you're that perpetrator could still be out there even though they're in the database having been, you know, connected by two or more victims. Yeah. So, there there's a couple of different things. We're focused on survivors first. And so, the survivors well-being is the first thing. Holding perpetrators accountable is the second thing which that's out of our hands really that is the system's hands which we know the

system doesn't do very well because less than like 99% of sur of perpetrators walk free and never experience any level of accountability. Um so we know that that system doesn't doesn't work very well which is why a lot of survivors don't report. And then the the third step long term is changing these systems and using the data to change the system. We do know from a recent survey that we that we did is that 83% of our users are reporting. And so we as we continue with data and as we continue measuring it and

as we continue studying it, we believe that there's going to be an increase of reporting because we know that perpetrators are more likely to be held accountable when more survivors come forward. We saw that with me too. We saw that with Larry Nasser, with Harvey Weinstein, with Jeffrey Epstein. Um, but there is a huge value for the survivors in just knowing that they're not the only one. And I just mentioned Epstein and one of our biggest supporters is Jess Michaels and I can share that like

she has allowed me to share this story. Um, but she was a 1991 survivor of of Jeffrey Epstein. And she lived for almost three decades with this knowledge that she was raped by Epstein. And she thought she was the only one until 2017 or 2018. She was reading a paper, reading a newspaper and she saw this article in the Miami Herald that put his face up there. She didn't know his name and she saw his face and she and that was the first day her healing began because she knew at that time that all

of these worries and all of these concerns that she had for freezing and everything else were not her fault that he had continued to do this to other people. It is not the responsibility of survivors to protect other survivors. It is the responsibility of the system to protect all survivors. And so if survivors want to report and they want to report because they want to help other people and to make sure this perpetrator doesn't harm anybody else, they get to do that. But I want to make sure that survivors who are out there

who did not report and will not report understand that it is not their responsibility to protect others from somebody else's harm like wrongdoing. It is the perpetrator's responsibility and it is the system's responsibility to protect others. um because the survivors often can't. And again, even the survivors who have reported often don't get justice. And if you look at the the the DNA kits, the rape kits that are done and the lack of accountability with those and just a lot of other things

that I could do a whole another hour on, um you'll you'll understand that so many survivors have reported and still didn't get justice even with serial perpetrators. Yeah. And that, you know, shocking but but true. To a very minor point, um, you picked a state at the start there. Does, if somebody reports uh a perpetrator in another state, does that match as well? Yes. So, we have Yeah. So, it doesn't matter who the perpetrator is. This is a great question. It doesn't matter who

the perpetrator is. The perpetrator does not have to be connected to the university. They don't have to be connected to to anything. We do have matches that um one survivor lives on one coast, one survivor lives on another coast. Um because we know that survivors move and we know that perpetrators move. And so um that yeah, that's a that's a really I was just checking. I mean, this is this is why uh apparently we have fewer serial killers now because police databases go across go across county

lines. And yeah, if you listen to my wife's obsessed with the true the uh the the the my favorite murder true crime podcast and appar before that there were people like oh I moved across the county lines I start killing again no one notices hang on. Honestly though, that's that's happening. That that there's a there's actually a case in Louisiana that happened um five or 10 years, maybe less than 10 years ago, where the perpetrator was reported at three different schools, reported to the police, and he just kept

dropping out of the school and then starting at another school and raped like numerous women um and was never held accountable because the systems actually could have talked to each other, but they weren't talking to each other. Right. So um that's my so tell me a bit about so now you have this shift where you are where Kalisto is available to anybody you are publicizing yourselves by social media tell me a bit about how you're publicizing yourselves and the second question I know this came

up because uh you guys had a had a sort of financial meltdown a little while ago and put out some deals and then seem to have come back from the brink but talk about what is the the funding model behind Kalisto you know to make this work. Um, yeah. And then let's tell me a bit about sort of how the the credit business model for a nonprofit. Sure. Yeah. So, so I you asked first you asked about like how do we spread the word basically? Um, mostly through social medias where people are hearing about us. Um, and so you know

that that's a big part of it. We also have Kalisto ambassadors who are volunteers uh that are students who spread the word on their campus by tableabling events, by going to their dorms, by going to um sorority and fraternities to tell them that there's they have access to this um to this system. And so we have really passionate survivors, most of them are survivors, not all of them, but survivors and allies who really want to spread the word because they think that this this is important. We do work with

administrations. We work with, uh, student government organizations. We work with anybody that want to work with us, including local rape crisis centers, uh, state and local co coalitions. Um, anybody who's working with college students or interested in working with survivors, we will work with to start to spread the word. There's a, um, on our website, we have a, uh, free downloadable toolkit where you can download posters and and different materials to be able to spread the word. Um, and so I would encourage people to

look at that. But as far as our funding, we are 100% philanthropically funded. Um, we we don't get government funding, which thank goodness because most government funding is going away for for victim services. Um, but we have the support of of foundations um, and individual donors really. And so, like you mentioned, we had quite a funding crisis. Um there we when Jess Lad, our founder who you mentioned, left in 2020, there was um some instability. We had a pandemic. We were changing um the

technology at that time. We had a new CEO um that was between Jess and I. Um and so there were some leadership changes that didn't work out. And then I started two years after Jess left. And so that's a lot for an organization within two years um for for any organization. And we managed to keep it going for a while with changing the technology. Um, and which changed our funding stream and changed our marketing components as well. Um, and we ran out of funding. We we hit this cliff where

we thought we had some more money coming in and we didn't. Um, and we ended up having to close our doors. And the day that we announced that, Arnold Ventures came in and said, "We want to we want to make sure that you're you're solid." and survivors across the globe, not even through the US, started donating and started spreading the word because they knew the power of this. And we, it was completely surprising. We were not expecting to stay open and here we are six, seven, eight months later. Um, and

so we rely on people who want to spread the word, who want to do a fundraiser at their house, who want to run a 5K or or do a 5K in their neighborhood to support Kalisto, who will, you know, we've got somebody um mine not yours candles who's selling candles that a part of the proceeds go to Kalisto. Uh, and we're looking for for more people who really really want to support us and to either create their own fundraiser or to give because we want to keep these services free for survivors. And one of the

reasons that we had um some funding issues too is to put it in context, less than 2% of all charitable giving in the US goes to women and girls issues and venture capital in that case. Right. Almost none of that goes to women either. Yeah. Right. Uhhuh. Exactly. And so of that less than 2% that includes breast cancer research. So if you see all the Susan G. Kman things which is absolutely necessary and we need to give money to it includes reproductive rights. It includes all of this stuff and it's such a small portion

of everything. Um sexual assault is also very difficult to to market. Meta shuts down our ads and our boosted posts because they either say it's inappropriate because we're using the word sexual assault or rape. um or they say it's political um and that's going to continue um even even more so uh in the future we believe and so that is really difficult um as well and so there's there's a lot of challenges in this space and it's not something that there's not a good sound

bite for what Kalisto does because people don't understand why we exist or the need for us um which is also another challenge but We have overcome a lot of it. However, again, with victim services being cut. I mean, 500 organizations lost contracts last last week. Uh, and it's going to continue. The Office of Violence Against Women um is no longer doing any grants. That's going to shut down most domestic violence and and rape crisis centers. So, we hope that we're still good, but all nonprofits right now

are struggling. Um, and so we need to keep this vital resource alive, especially if all these rape crisis centers close because victim services are are being attacked. Absolutely. I mean, know it's it's one of the, you know, many many appalling acts of vandalism that have been carried out by the new administration. And uh you know I in some ways it's good that you're not directing the line of fire in Arnold ventures which is a little bit controversial in the wider healthcare world for some of their uh some of their

uh uh uh uh some of their funded research is is I think overall a great organization plus you know you have with with organizations like that because it's still very founder driven you have you know the ability to to to to catch the attention of somebody. So that's great news that you guys are that Kalisto is still doing. Tell me a little just for finish tell me a little bit about what you think the overall impact is what what's what you know if there are I mean you can presumably estimate

you know if there's 90% of of of assaults are unreported gives you an idea of how many there might be how you know how how much has kalisto moved the needle on that at various camps how many more reports are there sitting I mean you must get a ping every time someone reports in the database compared to what actually happened give me a sense about what what how much the uptake of this has been and how you're moving the needle a bit. Yeah, I think that um it's still really early to tell exactly the

impact that we're going to make, but we did just recently do a survey and 90% of respondents of that survey said that they agreed that they feel more secure just knowing that Kalisto exists and is a res source. But during our pilot, for every 37 entries, one serial perpetrator was identified. And that was a fairly small population. And again, we weren't doing a huge amount of outreach at that time. And so until we really get the outreach going, um, and we we get more of that tipping point of use, um, we're

not going to know the full impact because I think it's going to be bigger than we expect. um and especially going back to those numbers of of 90% of sexual assault um are committed by serial perpetrators. But we have seen a really big impact um you know 83% of our users are already reporting. So, we're we're seeing that increase in reporting, too. And so, we're still analyzing a lot of that survey data that we took um at the beginning of the year, and we're going to see more of those impacts, but

we're growing significantly. Every month, we have more and more um users. And even this month, which is, you know, at the end of sexual assault awareness month when we are recording this, we have a record-breaking amount of users that have have created accounts this month. Um I'm not sure the percentage increase um off the top of my head, but it it's it's really significant. Yeah. And I and I assume there's I mean, you know, there there is a unfortunately a vast number of potential, you know,

users and reporters given given the given the statements you've been making about the uh the prevalence of the problem. Um there are obviously a number of these instances and you mentioned Larry Nasser and others, you know, that have that have made it through because just they're so awful. But there's presumably, you know, there's a whole lot under the radar which just, you know, as don't get reported and even if they do get reported, it's not regarded as being that big a deal. And and uh you

it's one of these things where where after I think me too and Harley or whatever, people kind of understand it's going on, but it's still, you know, it's still a very taboo difficult topic. Obviously, it's something where where as you mentioned, it's very very tricky for uh yeah, for survivors to to know what to do next. And as you said, even if they go through the process, it may just be, you know, it may just be an awful experience for for for no outcome. And so, I mean, the idea of getting them, as

you're doing, getting them at least if they're, you know, getting them to a uh uh to a counselor just to know if there's a an active, you know, an active multi multi-perpetrator is great. What one question though if I mean if if there if someone's been assaulted and is a survivor and there isn't a match um is there anything that eucal might the future do for those people because the anonymity and the access to you know a a legal counselor sort of not connected to the school or not connected to the

police and saying out the issues I mean is that something that that you've gone down the path of figuring out or is there just would there just be too much when they when they finish that entry, as you as you saw in the the demo, there is a resource page. So, we give them resources, but even like I said, 90% of the respondents agree that they get benefits just knowing that our platform exists. And so, I think that it is something to just say that like somebody is looking there's a whole organization

out there that's dedicated to finding repeat perpetrators that it it's worth that. And so I think that there is a huge amount to be said with that and we are talking about more resources. There are a lot of resources out there and so we don't want to recreate the wheel. Um and one other thing I want to go back to as well as far as like you talked about business plans and and our future and everything is that the one one of the questions that we get all the time is why just schools and when are we going

to expand? Um and we are working on an expansion plan that will monetize um access to Kalisto Vault not for ouredus that will be free um but to potentially get unions and membership organizations to pay to have access to their members. It will always be free for the survivors, but for those membership organizations to be able to provide this as a service so we can expand access because we know that sexual assault happens well beyond college campuses. You know, we started on college campuses because Jess Lad, our founder, was

assaulted on college at at college and the reporting process was really awful for her and that was her goal was to um reduce college sexual assault um and beyond, but to really start in college. And so that's where we're starting. But we have um a lot of ideas and a lot of plans to continue to expand. And again that that the the biggest hurdle in all of that right now is uh fundraising of course sadly the case for you know so many organizations but um it's fantastic that you have a brought it back from the

brink and b you know continue to provide this this great service and um thank you very much for coming on board and showing it today. Thank you for for sharing this with your um your audience. We really appreciate it because we want everybody to know about Kalisto, right? I've been talking with Tracy Deamassi. She is the CEO of Kalisto, which if you haven't figured out by now, is a really interesting uh uh tech technology- based service for helping uh survivors of sexual assault help uh at least identify uh repeat

perpetrators who are a big problem. So, uh Tracy, thanks very much for your time. Thank you.