Title: Tyto Care

URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9DDoMmaMG2c
Language: en
Duration: 00:39:30
Upload Date: Oct 7, 2025

Transcription:

[Music] Hi, Matthew Halt with the healthcare blog. Another THCV spotlight here. I'm with Tammy Gotfrieded. He is the chief commercial officer and uh chief strategy officer at Taito. Taiito has been for quite a while now a pioneer in I would call um remote patient uh device monitoring. I don't know what you want to call it to me, but I remember having uh someone retit at a health conference back in Europe in 2016 2017.

Um so the company's been around a while and uh it's in a it's in a little area which I think is underdeveloped but uh uh T welcome for those who haven't run the title really quickly. What do you I've told you what I think you do but you tell me what you actually do. Thank you Matthew. So yeah, what Tito does is we basically replicate the inpatient experience in a remote setting.

Meaning we try to mimic what the physician can do while you're in their office but allowing him or them he or she to have those capabilities in a virtual setting. Yeah. So for example, under your traditional telealth visit, under the audio video telealth visit, the physician can only, you know, look at your face, listen to your voice, um ask you questions and interact with you that way.

And if you have maybe a pink eye, then they can say, "Oh, yeah, I see a pink eye." But if you're coughing or you're running a fever, there's very limited options for that physician to diagnose. Yeah. And that's exactly where Tito comes in. So, we're trying to mimic that experience and take the physical into the digital with our medical device. So, you have the device and the device has a we'll we'll see it in a second.

The device has a bunch of things that go with it, but you also have a infrastructure, a tele health infrastructure around the device. So, can you briefly describe how those two things work together? Sure. So uh the device itself it's a it's a you know modular it's a it's a modular kit which comes with the base unit as you can see I'm holding it in my hand here with different capabilities on it.

So obviously high definitionition camera thermometer on it we can show it in a minute different types of attachment goes. So for example the stethoscope so the the physician can listen to a to a person's lungs heart bowels etc. An autooscope again blue dot to blue dot where a physician can look inside a patient's ear um and be able to see if there is you any issues there.

There's a tongue depressor and there are, you know, other capabilities that connect into this device allowing to get SPO2 readings, blood pressure readings and more. Um, so, uh, yeah, but this is a basically small device, handheld device, modul. So, so let's see if it works. Are you alive? Let's take your temperature. Let's, uh, let's do the temperature exam. So, it's guiding me.

So there's a an a lot of AI components into this because for the laying person on how to do some medical exams, you know, we have some things some uh so it guides them on the screen. Yeah, guides them on the screen and it's taught me to position the device a couple of inches from my forehead. Okay, there's my temperature. You're alive. Well done. Yeah, you're a little bit cold. Let's turn the heat up.

Yeah, the air condition is too strong here. But but likewise when when you're doing uh for example for the uh for the otoscope right sorry the yeah the autoscope so if you want to look inside of the patient's ears again you can collect the information it tells you it guides you on how to you know place the device how to capture the right image and over the years we developed a lot of capabilities that enable us to really capture the right image and the technology validates whether that image is not only is it good enough but is there an issue with the with what was captured. And these are things that that

again with the data that we've been collecting over the years and and to date we have over 9 million exams, we're able to now run our algorithms and really AI on it to diagnose conditions. So, I'd love to get into that, but let's first uh you've got a a little video you're going to show here of the um of how it works from the perspective of uh the clinician at the other end.

Now I understand this is both you can do asynchronous stuff and synchronous use. Is that true? Correct. Correct. Uh so most physicians today prefer for this to be asynchronous. Right. So while you're waiting for the physician to get online, Tito uses our um a symptom checker basically to guide you through which type of exams will the doctor need to see. Yeah. Um then while you're in the waiting room, you basically do your own examination.

So when the physician comes on, they look, they can already see the images, hear the sounds, look at the videos, and be able to diagnose while they're speaking with you instead of you having to fiddle with the device while the physician's online. Now, in case the physician does want to hear something again, it will go into synchronous mode where they can actually control the device remotely and then continue the further examinations if needed. So, I think you've got a video of that.

So, why don't you uh pop that up? Yeah. I mean, give us an idea about what the uh what the clinician view into this is if they Yep. Oh, can you see my screen? Not yet. Not yet. I hear the little funky I don't know who I don't know who wrote the little background music for all these sort of two-minute videos, but they must be very rich by now.

Probably. They all use the same one. Although the guy who wrote the Cisco hold music which is on every call center of the world. His roommate stole it from him and he never got paid even though it's been listened to. There's a whole NPR example about waiting on hold for that. Okay, we're singing now. So you play it.

This guy looks far too healthy to be a patient. Hi John. I'm Dr. Williams. Hi doctor. Right now you're seeing feeling well. Okay. So, this is the version. I've been weak for a couple of days now. Can't sleep, have fever, and coughing at night. The patient's getting the introduction. A few starting with your temperature. Correct.

And they're now in Please place Tito a few inches from your forehead. So, he needs much help figuring out where his forehead is. This guy's not doing as well as you were. Just listen to your lungs now. Please attach the stethoscope adapter. Okay. that you show us that she puts on her headphones. Place title on your chest and breathe. Please move it right now. Great. Breathe again.

Perfect. Let's take a quick look at your ears now. Please attach the adapter. Well, I don't know. Maybe the guy his ears before half disgusting. That was not so bad actually. Great. Mind the adapter with the tongue depressor. Open your mouth and say, "Ah." Wow. This guy has very nice teeth. He's clearly not brushed. Excellent. We're all done with the exams. You did great.

So, based on these exams, I was able to see that you have All right. Okay. So, uh that's great. So, I mean sped up a bit. Obviously, that's mostly done asynchronously before. Um and this is kind of like the missing link for Tellah Health that I've always thought about. So, let's talk about a couple of things.

Let's start with the thing you mentioned which is the sort of algorithmic interpretation of of what's going on here. what in a typical asynchronous uh piece and I think can you me can you explain a little bit how there are I think you you uh have other devices that connect as well blood pressure calc and stuff like that can you explain a little bit more about how they all connect and then what the process of getting a full asynchronous exam is to the to the doctor where they're waiting and then sort of what happens what's the typical process they're going to walk through.

Yeah. So let's take you through through the uh the journey of of using Tito. Um let let's start with the device the components that you can connect. So not everybody in their house needs a blood pressure cup for example or a sperometry right but there are some patients maybe with chronic conditions maybe there is there's a family with with an asmatic kid that they do need these additional attachments or or equipment that connects with title. Yeah.

Now these equipments are are fully integrated into Tito, we use a a fully integrated into Tito and and while you're going through the examination or when you're actually logging into the app to see the the the physician h you're going through the workflows clicking that you want to see a physician the the technology will ask you what is the visit about you will start communicating with the device saying well I'm not feeling well I'm I I'm coughing. I'm running a fever.

And you'll go through a through a screening that they that our AI or the wizard kind of walks you through. Yeah. At the end of that, the device will tell you, okay, while you wait for a physician because you'll be put into a digital waiting room, um let's say let's start taking the exams, right? And then it will guide you if you need to take a a you know an analysis of your long sounds, then it will guide you to connect the stethoscope as we seen in there.

And then we'll say place on the right side, left side, etc. try and get the get the recording. Now what's really interesting is is over the years again as I mentioned earlier we collected a lot of a lot of data and they run our analysis on it run our algorithms on it to a point where we can now and this is FDA cleared run our long sound analyzer and already detect if there is something there.

So for example, we already have three FDA clearances for whis detection, crackles, and ron in the in the lungs, therefore covering pretty much the lung conditions. So if something does pop up, we can already flag it for the physician.

So when they do get that visit through they'll start looking at at their notes and and seeing the the recordings listening to the recordings and if there was something detected the system will flag it for the physician so that now they don't need to listen to the full maybe 30 second recording to identify the uh the issue. Um so so that is the general process or flow for a for a patient when they grab the technology they connect through their app connect to their physicians and so forth.

Now, at the same time, uh, we're also connected integrated into the EMR, the the the hospital's EMRs, and so we're able to not only capture the information, but also keep those recording available for future use for those clinicians. So, um, that's great.

You've got you've you've got the uh the device obviously all attachments the platform the tellah health platform which is presumably most people use it on an app on their phone or the computer I guess either way that's an app on the phone right yeah um and then uh and the clinician sitting there on their computer and doing standard tellah health visit um and then you've got all this sort of pre-diagnostic work um one more thing do you guys also uh supply or contract with your own tellah health medical group or you only sell the you only sell the product sell the sell the the the product line solution to uh to to third parties.

Yeah. So we are neutral. We you know by by default we do not have our own medical provider. So we're always going to come to some uh with some medical provider. So when we do sell obviously through the payers or to employers we will have our you know preferred partner or the partner that they use integrate into the platform and work with the big uh tele health providers or when we work with health systems we basically use their own information.

So I mean so you're you're clearly a technology vendor here not trying to do the in general trying to do the full not trying to do the full service part but this raises to me a sort of pretty interesting point right now because you're providing uh a couple of things. So one is the obviously the connectivity around the ability to extend that teleahalth visit but the second which is all this data around and tracking people with chronic illness.

So um how much and I don't know if how far you've gone down this path. How much of the interaction between title care and the physician payer clinician group who whoever is the sort of end user of the of the data how much of that is just asynchronous people checking in and how much of it is actually in the context of a visit.

So let's say I have a chronic condition or whatever and I want to you know and I want to be taking my blood pressure measurements or my SP2 or my you know checking my wheezes or my my pulse or whatever it happens to be you know and it's not like an emergency thing where I have a high temperature and need prescription that day but I have you know hypertension or whatever the whatever the issue is how much uh of this is this being used as a tracking device by consumers that a punishment will check in occasionally you know and

manage manage sort of over time rather than a sort of urgent event. Yeah. So, so it's a great question. Um, it's a great question because earlier this year or late last year, we released our chronic care management module. Right. Right. Until then, it was mostly urgent care visits.

If something goes wrong, then you you connect and you see your physician. Though some of the of our customers and we work with over 250 organizations, health health organizations globally. Um but some of our customers actually also deploy it in the primary care setting. So if you want a regular primary care visit, you can schedule that with your physician and then use title care for that.

But uh as I mentioned earlier, we released the chronic care management module and now there's a new version of it coming out which is the the smart clinic companion and that really is focused on the individuals at home that have chronic conditions or some sort of a conditions whether it's hypertension, asthma, CHF or whatnot to use the app for for different things. So number one it's it's to track symptoms right or track their conditions over time get a baseline and then if there's any abnormalities it will be flagged and alerted help them guide through their you know their day-to-day life.

So it's whether it's medication reminders or journals that we have on the applications but all the way to a point where if you do have something going on if you wake up one day and you're not feeling well maybe you're asmatic and you start coughing or you're COPD patient and you start coughing heavily instead of picking up the phone and calling your physician immediately or rushing to the ER the point is to first go through the app go through Tito and then Tito will let you know whether it's something that you need to to consult

the the the medical professional or is it something that you can continue managing on your own and this is the degree that we got to and as I mentioned earlier that's where our AI comes into effect and where the FDA already cleared some of the of the of this these functionalities and there are more in the pipeline. So yeah, I think that that that's the sort of very interesting part. So I'm going to go ask you two questions.

The first one's about the consumer aspect of this. So you don't I'm correct to say you don't sell this directly to consumers this you this comes via payers health plans or or others right so they're distributing this uh these devices um why why so you don't do this why why do you take that why is this not a consumer device I don't know how much the thing the thing costs but my assumption would be that if you know if I am a worried mom of kids and you know I want to check their ears and their temperature and whatever and I want to be able to connect this to a to a teller health doctor. This strikes me as an obvious

consumer product that you should be able to sell to millions of people. So why did why have you not gone down that path? Yeah. Uh you know it's something that we envision we envision every household to own a title device and and that would be their go-to when something goes wrong in the household.

And to interrupt you by the way people have tried this right tried this with the smart thermometer and some other things. It hasn't done so maybe I'm wrong. They haven't done that well, but it does look like a very obvious thing everyone should have. Correct. So, so there's a big factor here that that is going on.

First of all, there it's a behavioral change for consumers, right? you're not used to consume real medical examinations in a virtual setting and and obviously co taught us all that yes you can do you know a telealth visit but but there's a trust factor in there where you want to know that there's actually a physician on the other side that can really diagnose your condition.

Uh so you know to go into a you know a a retail location and pick up a device and then connect it the question becomes who do you connect it to and do you trust that physician on the other line. So, so with that in mind, we decided the best strategy is to go with either your payers or your providers.

And then when you're actually using the technology or you have something, the first thing that comes to mind, it's that hospital system or that provider group or that pair that you work with and that you trust and that's what they remember. That's what they go to first, right? So, so if if you're looking at from that angle and obviously the scale ability, you know, the ability to reach a wider community is far greater.

So, so again it's a it's a behavioral change that that we need to overcome and eventually it will be there in a point where people will just go and seek those devices. Now we do have customers that that do sell direct to consumer right or health plans that do provide this to their consumers uh and we see we see that the impact that it's creating is is is vast not only in the costsaving for these organizations right for example payers but also in the convenience and and how patients enjoy the technology and today we run an MPS survey after every exam and we see that we have 83 points in MPS score right on that we see that

there's a 98% resolution rate during those audio video visits right we see that the utilization of this technology is five times greater than that of audio video so again there's there are a lot of factors in there that show that this actually is is a preferred way of getting care over regular traditional audio video or driving all the way to your urgent care facility sitting in line standing around sick Right.

And then to see a physician for something that could have been diagnosed with Yeah. I mean that so that that all makes a lot of sense and I understand the strategy there and uh it so so if I am a just take I don't know your typical arrangement with a health plan or provider.

How do they decide who of their patients gets you know of their members patients gets this? um you know how how when when you have an agreement with them and they say great we're going to you know use tidal care for our population which subsegment do they go after how do they explain to you okay we need to you know we need you to deliver or maybe they somebody somewhere has to deliver a bunch of these out to somebody how does that all happen right so so it varies from market to market right different geographies today we're operating over 25 countries but in the US which is our largest largest market

unfortunately it's still a um fee for service health system, right? Where if you're if you're with a health plan, the health plan will select the right individuals that would benefit most from this technology, the right individuals that eventually essentially cost them the most.

H if you're going when we're going through health systems then they're looking to for the for the cohorts or the the population that they're taking risk on especially the ones that they're fully capitated on. So for instance if if an organization has full capitation on a Medicaid population then they would go and offer them title first in that respect.

Also in the US we we work with employers. Yeah. and and some of these employers are obviously on the risk for their employees. So they will go and offer it to their employees with a way of encouraging them to consume services in a virtual setting which are much more economical for them than them actually going and and going to urgent care or emergency department which are the costier options.

So when when you have that situation where you are selling essentially through a partner or you are being fulfilled through a partner and now that we can discuss how they're paying for it in a second a lot of people have that issue especially a general health plan and they you know they sign a contract and sign a partnership all sounds great and then somewhere lost in the details people don't know how to figure out how to get through it. It doesn't h you know it's it's a problem.

How do you ensure that this thing actually gets used by the by the people who are using it? How does it actually get fulfilled, get used, get plugged in so that they're actually getting value out of it? Yeah. So, over time, we developed our our Bibles and we have a great partner marketing team that work closely with our partners to develop those journeys for them.

And that goes all the way from how do you gain their how do you how do you uh provide awareness campaigns to those individuals to know that yes, there there is an option or they qualify for an option to get a title device. Um, and then it leads them all the way through the decision process, the buying process of saying, "Yes, I want to whether buy it or I'm I can opt in and and get a free device." And from there, we developed Amazon like fulfillment capabilities.

So, Title Care actually does all the fulfillment and engagement with those patients. So, we actually send the device out to the patient. We track it from the moment it left our warehouse to the moment the patient received it. And then we know exactly if after you know a I think it's 48 hours is the golden rule that they haven't unboxed the device then we will start encouraging them whether it's through text messages, emails or sometimes even phone calls encourage them to open and help them go through the the settings. Now there are a lot of

obviously a wizards that take them through that but some you know some in the elderly or or others that are less techsavvy will require more handholding and then our team is there to support them through that as well. But the key is to get them to try the device whether it's on their own or through playing doctor with a virtual physician but get get them comfortable enough so when they do need to use it they don't have to try and figure it out. Right? Right.

So again we we develop this muscle internally and we provide these bibles to our customers and ways of of working with with our technology. Uh and do you have any data on uh usage rates and amount of times the individual device gets used by a family or householder in you have some suggested stats about that? Yeah. So we see today in a usually it's measured by a population of a thousand.

So we see in a population of a thousand we get about 45% utilization or north of 45% utilization under certain cohorts. We've seen cohorts that also reach over 75% utilization of the technology. And again it really depends on who are you targeting and so forth.

And a lot of times what will happen when we work with payers for example they will look at claims data and again we help them with their actuaries. We help them figure out the right numbers and we will target together with them the individuals that might be the frequent flyers to the EDS. Right. I assume a lot of this is kids with asthma and a big category. Yeah.

Ch families with young children's but we've also seen something very interesting. Um and this came out from a study that we've done with one of the largest payers, a tier one payer in the US. They've done a study and they've seen that initially they were targeting the the kiddos, right? Families with young children and and we saw a nice utilization from the from the children.

But then what surprised all of us is we also start seeing adults use it more and more. The parents actually use it because they figured if this is working with my kid now, I can see a physician. And as you know, if we have a little fever or we're coughing, we're just going to ignore it and you know go on our day or take a sick day and stay at home and and relax.

But here suddenly it allowed the parents to say well hold on I can get seen as well without needing to take the day off of work without needing to go to my physician. So we've seen an interesting peak there and if I'm not if I'm if I remember correctly it's around 46% of the users were actually adults on this technology adults in the range of 35 to 45 right so so again very interesting stats that that came out of there interesting let's talk a little bit about uh your business um h how when you have an arrangement with a with a with a payer or with a provider how do how do you guys get paid um and I want to

preface this by saying obviously that you know you you uh uh Tare has raised decent amount of money most of it since the pandemic and also most of it I don't know if this is connected since the uh the the the the RPM code payments sort of coming in I don't know if you um have managed to figure out a way to get paid via that how to payers in America think about it and then while you're talking about the other countries h how to pay how to how do your customers in the rest of the world pay for you but what's the

basic business strategy that you're employing here? Yeah. So, initially we launched more on a subscription base, right? So, we would sell B2B and they would either sell or provide it to their customers. Um, we had that going on for quite some time where they would be on a on an annual subscription of our technology commit, you know, with certain commitment and so forth.

Um but what we actually started rolling out earlier this year um is more of um kind of a risk based approach where we're taking some of that of those that risk uh from our customers and the reason for that is we've seen exactly how effective our technology is. We've seen the the high utilization rates where we're feeling comfortable to start charging per engaged member.

Right? So now rather than charging for a device that sits in a household maybe with the you know four or five individuals in that household now we shift it over to a model where our customers will only pay when the technology is used and that shows the level of confidence that we have in our solution and also gives confidence to a lot of our of our partners because essentially they don't get paid unless or they don't get any savings unless the technology is actually used unless they get to avoid that ED visit. And here Tito is coming

forward and saying you know what we're with you. If we can avoid that ED visit then you need to pay up. I see. And then uh how does that work in the rest of the world? In the rest of world it's a it's quite interesting. So for example there are some countries we work with some HMOs in some countries they're regulated a bit differently.

So they will fund part of the device. they will sponsor part of the device but then they actually have to sell it to the to the consumers. So they will run campaigns and they will sell it for relatively a low price but then they will keep on paying the subscriptions to title care on the back end.

So it's a bit of a different model um than in the US but what also we've seen in some countries because again of the health systems there the the payers are really the ones to launch the home programs. We have a a big presence for example with AXA mainly in Turkey is one of the markets that we're deployed and we're deploying other markets as well and again they're offering it for certain plans that they're running but interesting enough you know we're talking a lot about the home side of titare but we have the same technology that is used also for remote settings right so for for the um maybe rural clinics or schools we have

over 200 schools using our technology in We have over 8,000 micro clinics using our technology and these these are facilities that they might have limited resources, limited capabilities and as you know this is a growing problem across the world with the shortage of physicians and access to care in general where some of these health systems again in the US and abroad um they're deploying tight to care in these different access points not only to provide a access to primary care but also to specialty care right So even we have a customer in Minnesota or sorry

South Dakota that deployed Titoare in over 300 remote locations with the point of allowing cardiologists and pulmonologists to have access to their patients that might sit three to five hours away from their facilities. Right. So now they're expanding their reach and providing better care into the communities. Yeah.

And I've got to say I'm I'm one of the things I've got totally wrong about how uh how healthcare was going to be changed since you know since the early days when tidal care was starting out but other companies like Amwell and tell tead do adopt you know we're doing the visits was that I' you know having experienced this back in 2012 and I just am shocked that there hasn't been more uptake I know there is uptake of tell the pandemic changed a bit but it just shocks me how little these technologies have been used over overall given the the the stress we the stress we have and how and how effective they can be. But

so so it's that's commentary that's that's let me ask you why you guys haven't done that well yet. Yeah. No, but but you know it's interesting. So again it's that behavioral change but it's also you know the animals and Teldocs on the world which by the way both of them are partners of Titleare and and now they're deploying Titleare to to their customers right but it took them time to understand that audio video can only take them so far and audio video is a commodity today.

Everybody does it and the quality the care that is provided through there is is limited is limited to to what they can do. They're limited in a lot of ways and so and so here is where finally they they got the the idea and they understood that title can really distinguish them and can really elevate the level of care that they can provide. So let me close with two questions about the future.

One's very pedantic and businesslike and the other one is is much more sort of futuristic. So you guys raised it been around uh I think it was 2012 was the original start of the company something like that. It's it's been it's been a while right.

Um yeah a number of digital health companies have now finally made it and gone public and that was around in 2020. you raised a lot of money. I think over $200 million during the course of the pandemic, but it's been a while since you've had a raise. And I think there was a quote from your CEO saying during the last raise, this is the last time we're going to raise money. Something like that. So, uh, how's the company doing and when can we expect to to see, you know, those poor investors who've been sitting around since 20 the early 2012s getting some of their money? Yeah. So, so yeah, so we've been around since around 2012, about 13 years.

Though the early years it was a lot of development and and going through FDA regulations and so forth. So commercializing, I think we've been commercializing for about seven years now, give or take. Um, and yeah, over the years we raised a I think we're at series D now with around $200 million in in total funds raised.

And every CEO that you ask during a ra during a fund raise, they'll tell you, "Oh, this is the last time I'm raising funds." Um, but uh but but in essence, we're building you can call we're building an IPO company, right? we're building a company that that's going to keep on growing and and scaling and and there's going to be different steps that you take along the way whether it's another raise, whether it's an M&A with, you know, a lot of things can happen along the way. Uh but uh obviously we have great investors that support us and

understand the mission, understand what we're doing, and they're and they're here for the long run. So yeah. and and what what would you say the level I don't know if you have disclosed revenue numbers or or punish numbers what would you say the level of penetration of the potential market is so far I mean I would say hello I'm assuming but given no one's offered me one yeah I I think the penetration is still there there's a lot more to go right I think we're just starting to scratch the surface um once we start seeing, you know, payers offer it across the board

to all their members. It's going to take some more time. Payers, health systems, the health industry in general is really slow to move uh and and and adopt to new things like that. So, it's going to take some time, but but we have been growing year-over-year in a in a healthy way. Our customers are sticking with title.

They enjoy tit and they grow with us and they'll continue to do so and as they do we'll get a bigger and bigger market share. I can tell you for sure today there you know there were some title competitors that came about and and it's you know it takes time you need you know you need to sustain the company for a while to start going through that behavioral change and some of these competitors couldn't get the regulations couldn't get the clinical buyin which is a big part of it.

In order to be successful in the in the clinical world, you need a clinical buyin and that takes time. So once we have all these health organizations really vouch for title care and and the key industry figures speak highly of title care, it's very difficult for other competitors to come in and penetrate the market. So we're continuing to demo dominate the market.

Um we encourage competition because we think at the end of the day we shouldn't be the only ones educating the market on the capabilities of these types of technologies. But today, we're the only ones that really provide a holistic solution, kind of an all-in-one for for primary care. And there are a lot of competitors out there doing very specific things.

What you mentioned earlier, a digital thermometer, a digital stethoscope, but really, we're the only ones that provide an all-in-one kit uh that is FDA approved. And and another thing that you see, there are a lot of lifestyle companies out there providing technologies just for people to to use at their home and play with it, but they're not necessarily clinical grade to a point where you can have a physician trust that they're getting an accurate image or sound and so forth.

So, here's again where Taiare shines and why we're trying to do it the right way and not rush to get something in there that's going to eventually land as a lifestyle device. Yeah, I think that's super interesting. We're seeing you know the growth of like the Aura ring and even Apple trying to put the by the way those are all great those are all great and and the vision so you talked about the vision that we have we're investing a lot in AI and today we have the largest repository of unstructured clinical data we have over 9 million exams on our platform and we're using these exams with actually

physicians to build our AI capabilities and get to a level that is on par with a general practitioner or in fact sometimes superior to a general practitioner and on par with specialists analysis right so so we're building it in that way and um and the key is that we're seeing you know an integrated an integrated household where if you have your rings or your watches but eventually have all that integrated through titleare where we're going to be able to look and continuously monitor what's going on with your condition run it through our algorithms and be then be

able to guide you through what's needed, what do you need to get done in order to get better care. So, you kind of preempted my last question, but what do you think this looks like? Uh, assuming it's more generalized and more people are being monitored at more times, you know, sort of consistently rather than just during during a a physician's visit.

What do you think uh tare or this type of sort of remote monitoring care at home looks like in say 5 10 years? We're expecting it to provide more capabilities in the individual's hands, right? So allowing more individuals to manage their own conditions remotely.

So you know, as I mentioned earlier, we're now scratching the surface with AI capabilities, but you're basically and we're going to release that very soon, the the smart clinic companion, which allows you to really monitor your condition, manage your condition at home. then come to title care when when maybe just a baseline or when something goes wrong and then title care through the analysis guide you on whether you really need to go see a physician or we should continue monitoring your condition maybe get tested in a few more hours to see how you're doing or just tell you listen

just sleep it off you're doing well so that's where we're going a connected home where Tai is going to be at the center of it and guiding you through your conditions yeah and I think that's you know very obvious uh vision of the future and I sincerely hope we get there because as you mentioned we don't have the the manpower we don't have the idea and we we still have an sort of a you know pointbased stochastic system rather than a continuous uh uh monitoring of care and I think that that's something that

as we deal with more and more chronic care and chronic illness we're going to have to figure out how how to manage that better and obviously AI plus you know sensible guidelines for people before they get to a before they have to call on a professional when we have you know months and months of of appointment.

I was talking to some guy the other day who said he couldn't get an appointment with his doctor at Stanford for for nine weeks or something. We can't go on like that. So 100% and that's the exact problem that we have today. It's a shortage of physicians. They I think they're saying that by 2036 there's going to be a shortage of about 40,000 BCPS. Right.

So yeah, it's a serious problem and and also hospitals, they can't keep on building facilities. So they're trying to move a lot of that care to the home where it's, you know, less costly, more convenient for the patients. Um, so more of these services are going to move to the houses.

But now you need to have the technology there that allows this capabilities because what's happening now in a lot of these home home hospital programs, they end up sending a nurse to visit. they end up sending somebody to visit the patient and take those readings where we see that as that's going to be the next area that that is going to need to get resolved. Fantastic.

Well, uh certainly a lot to be done there. I've been talking with Tamir Gthreed. He's the chief commercial officer and head of strategy at Tidicare. Tir, thanks for your time. Great to catch up. Matthew, thank you so much. It was great.

