Title: V Bento, Sword Health
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_pu6fyjbIAI
Language: en
Duration: 27:12
Upload Date: Jul 29, 2025

Transcription:

[Music] Hi, I'm Matthew Hall with the healthcare blog on the THCV spotlight. I'm here with V Bento Villio I think is his correct name but uh everybody uses V I understand. Um be is the CEO of Sword Health. And for those of you who haven't been paying attention, Sword is one of the major um msk virtual msk providers um commonly linked with the their friends and rivals at Hinge who very recently went public. Um but certainly it's one of the uh one of the the the the larger players in digital health. Um

and he's been making some waves recently and we've had a little bit of back and forth on LinkedIn recently. So, I thought we would come come on and talk about it. So, uh before we get into the exciting stuff, uh well, not exciting stuff, but the stuff that we've been contentious about, uh just give me the basic story. You started this uh business in Portugal, um which I think is where you still are. Um uh what more than a decade ago, I understand. And uh just tell me a bit about the progress and how you um how

you've built out the business. Yeah. So, actually I'm currently in Porto, but in Portugal, but as you can imagine, I'm always over all over the place, right? Especially it comes most most of your business is in America. I'm great. There are 99.9 American business and you're hanging in Portugal. Most Americans hanging in Portugal anyway from what I can tell. I'm not again I'm biased, but I think it's a good gig. Um and and so we I started we started in 2015. I started

because of a personal motivation to solve how people access care, right? And then we we spent the last four years um after launching sword as a company after my PhD um we spent that uh basically in the lab uh just developing the technology getting the clinical validation done um and solving several technological problems um um because we don't believe that in healthcare you should like take shortcuts or move fast and break things right. So we took our time to get to the market and uh and then we finally launched in

January 2020 and so uh since then we launched with our physical pain uh care solution which we call it Thrive. Uh that solution took off very quickly start going very very fast. Then after two years in after that in 2022 we launched our uh pelvic health solution our women's physical health solution bloom and that solution started also accelerating very very fast and then after that we launched um a couple of other solutions uh and the most exciting one that we launched recently was our expansion into the mental health space

and so our goal is really um there's this misconception that sword is an MSK company, right? When in fact, what we want to use is AI combined with human clinicians to reinvent how people access care. How we recover people back to a full life and we expect to do that across all areas of uh care delivery. Okay. Well, that that sounds even more ambitious than what you've already done. So, uh I as as you know you sword via Blue Short of California. Um, and I think the initial uh technology was that

you strapped and I had this thing where you strapped sensors to your legs, but now you've moved away from that, right? And you now have a Yeah, we built we built a new device which we call the Tad, right? So, this is it's this device. It was built by us, right? Designed by us, everything from the hardware, the firmware. It has two cameras. It has multiple microphones. And it was developed specifically to be able to do computer vision and motion qualification through the cameras in high quality so that

members don't have to strap the sensors, right? Because again, it's really about like getting uh improved usability and patient experience. And so if you just switch the drive pad, it reads your movements. It's much more seamless. Yeah. And it strikes me that in general that's a fabulous idea because you've then got the ability to to track what happened to people over time easier way. But I actually felt that you know the sensors work for what they were they worked pretty well and you know I was

clearly for actually the performance sensors was quite good. The problem is like you need like for our low uh um lower limb like if you were recovering from your knee pain you had to strap five senses right honestly that's a little bit too much. I mean, yes and no. I mean, it's it's it's I would say that compared to like getting in your car and driving to a physical therapist, um, 100% in agreement. Yes. Um, so that's where that's where you're on on the MSK stuff. We we can talk

about the public health and the and the and the mental health in a second. Um, what I two things I think are interesting. One is you've made some comments about moving towards there was in my process which was only a year ago now there was a coach who I had a call with and then there was messaging back and forth and it was actually pretty helpful. Um but what what's your sense about where you end up between human coach human coaches and AI? What's that what's that where are you now? Where do you think

that ends up? So one quick clarification we don't use coaches at all. We don't have coaches. We use doctors of physical therapy right because we believe that a clinical condition needs to be treated by someone with clinical expert right and that's like a stance that we have which is again very public in the market and so what we believe is that AI should augment the doctor of physical therapy in the case of physical pain care right but it's critical that the clinician is always in

the loop right and so and then also um honestly it's not like healthcare is a one size fits Right. And so we see that. So one example is when members enroll in one of our programs, they can choose either to have a call with a with a with a clinical specialist that is going to manage their care or do everything a synchronously and just text with the clinical specialist. And we have folks that prefer to have the call, folks that prefer to not have the call and start the program immediately. And so we try

to like infuse optionality um so that members seek what makes most sense to them. All right. Very good. Um but in terms of uh using sort of AI for communication back with the members is that something that is is now a large part of the program. I think mine was all human the human texting. It's human human texting. What? So there are two different layers. So the therapy session that you do independently at home, that's done with Phoenix, our AI care specialist, right? And the reason why it's with Phoenix and not with a

human is because then you remove all barriers in terms of access to care. You can do your sessions in at 6:00 a.m. in your PGM as 11 p.m., right? Like AI really drives lots of value there in terms of like you can access whenever you want, wherever you want, right? And then you have Phoenix looking at what you've just the session data and proposing to the clinician to the doctor of physical therapy how they should change the program and which message they should send you but nothing goes out without getting approved and

validated by the doctor of physical therapy right and so and and lots of times again it's the doctor of physical therapy just uh deleting the message and writing one message because they think it's not the right message to send right so that's the model where we have the clinician in the loop where no communication is sent to the patient if it's not a communication validated and written by the by the clinician that is taking care of you but they're getting data back in a way

they wouldn't which I think is a great thing about virtual physical therapy they're getting data back the clinician is getting data back they just wouldn't get especially if the patient was at home you know allegedly doing their exercises between sessions we measure the range of motion we measure if you are controlling your posture or not we the same Phoenix does the same analysis as a physical therapist would do if they were in a clinic looking at you performing the therapeutic exercises right and that

that is very very important otherwise how do you manage the program right how do you change the program right if you don't know that this week you are doing a range of motion of 47° and last week you were doing it 37 degrees right so there's improvement and so the data piece which we were always very focused on it's critical otherwise what's the role of the clinician all right So let's talk a bit about how it's organized. So I did mine I don't know if this is this is usual for you

via Bula California. They had a company called Salera which then sort of has a list of things you can choose and they're choosing you. Um and I was somewhat surprised when I did mine as to how much uh was being built to Blue Shield of California. It worked out somewhat equivalent to a in-house physical therapist. A little bit cheaper but not substantially cheaper than an in-house physical therapist. And I made a remark about this. You said it was something to do with your contract with Silera. How do you typically get paid

and what do you typically get paid for a session and what's the relative cost of a a first person one of yours? So this is public. So we that varies a little bit but on like on average we have like a price point of roughly $1,000 and we charge that price point according to our outcomes pricing model. Right? And our outcomes pricing model which are very proud of charges only 50% up front when the member does the first session. And by then you already had a call with the doctor of physical therapy

with the clinician. We already sent you the device with the trackpad and all of that. And so those 50% really just covers the cost. We don't see a profit, right? And then we only charge the other 50% and that's why it's called outcomes pricing. If the member significantly improves, right? And so that's why we only get paid uh we only really see a profit uh if uh we drive significant clinical uh improvement of the patient. Uh and that's how you you usually pricing and that's we launched this last

year because it clearly aligns the value with our clients because you don't want to be paying 30 sessions uh either traditional physical therapy or as as some of our competitors do where you are paying for a session and you could pay 30 40 sessions and the memory is not seeing any kind of improvement right like that's not value is the patient is improved because even if you look from an ROI perspective, from a cost savings perspective, it's only when the member recovers that they are not going to seek

a surgery and all of the other costly stuff, right? So that's how we align value with our clients. So is that is that a I mean that sounds great. Is that a change? Because I think when I was doing it, it was much more being paid by by a number of sessions and then this was a year ago. We launched it last year. Okay. So that's so that and I think that makes a lot of sense. I was surprised as I said how much the the charge was of course I don't know how much went to you how much went to SLA and what was going

on in the background there's some there's some nuance there but also uh the reason outside of that point uh there's some nuance there but outside of that other than that um we the reason why we launched the outcomes pricing was because we were seeing that like a member engaging with the program has value but the real value is did the member improved or not right because you Yeah, please. And on that point, how do you tell um how what kind of integration back into uh either claims or other or the members

do, you know, how do you how do you know if they're avoiding surgery? Obviously, you've got some indication their range of motion improve and you know, feel better. Yeah, we have two actually we have two different layers. So, we have the outcomes pricing where we measure the clinical outcome depending on which condition are we treating you. Um we use the clinical skills that are usually used in that condition. Um as as for mental health we will be using PHQ9 and GOT7 for depression anxiety which are

again uh accepted clinical skills. Regarding your question, how do you know if we save that surgery or not? By the end of the year, we have a PG, a performance guarantee on ROI where we guarantee you that for each $1 that you spend on NZ, we save you $2 in healthcare costs and we measure that through claims, right? So, it's a time study and we do that with all of our clients. Um and uh again clients can use the methodology which is uh uh non-claims methodology using the claims methodology. We are okay with each one

and um and that's how we guarantee to clients that the clinical improvement that they are seeing with their members or with our members is driving cost savings and we are very proud in that regard that we never lost a client due to ROI due to lack of ROI. Uh so um and the clients are are they predominantly health plans or predominantly uh employers or some combination? Both both. We started with self-insured employers. Um um then we after we got to an initial critical mass within employers then we started closing health

plans. Um and now we also expanding the international footprint we have a new uh partnership within NHS. We are also looking working with other governments globally. So we are expanding beyond employers but employees are still an important part of our book of business. Um and then give me a flavor of how many people are currently going through the system or how many clients you have, how many employers, how many we have. I should know those numbers. So I can tell you that so so far since 2020 we delivered um 7

million AI sessions across all of our population. I think right now currently we are enrolling a new member every one minute or something like that. Um and so we are really accelerating in terms of scale. Okay. So it's and I assume most of those have been done the last year. All right. Let's talk about some of the stuff that we've gone back and forth on. Um a couple of things. First off, there is this uh lawsuit sitting around in San Francisco from an accelerator that you were part of back in 2015 2016 aging

2.0. Um what? So this looks to me like that that you were involved in this accelerated early on and that they're saying that they that uh you know you contractually agreed to give 5% of the company back then. God knows what percentage it is now. And you're disputing that. Um uh the the lawsuit looks relatively clear. Now of course it doesn't mean I'm not saying that any accelerator actually helped when you were starting the company but there is a but there is an agreement here. What's

your point of view? Why are you disputing this? Well, unfortunately I cannot like talk extensively as I wanted about that, right? Because my general counsel would kill me um quite free so right. Um what I can tell you is that we are very comfortable um with our position and I think you will see that in the coming months. Um okay, I cannot say more than that. All right. My commentary is that as you developed that that's going to have to go away someway and uh you know I don't know how uh I would having seen a lot of

accelerators and actually know the aging 2.0 folks um you know I I I know that plenty of companies go through those and don't necessarily get a lot of help. On the other hand an agreement is an agreement and it'll get worked out. Yeah. By the way our dispute is not about that. Okay. Well we'll we'll see you then. Um I'd like you to tell me more but if you want to tell me more you enter. All right. Next, not not my focus, right? Like I Okay, I understand. I understand it's

not your focus and obviously doesn't want to be, but it's it's out there. Um, secondly, and this is uh much more recent. You just raised money um at and you announced the valuation. So, uh what's your logic? You raised $40 million from General Catalyst and at the same time you announced a move into mental health and I get raising money to do more stuff and I know you're going to think about acquisitions the rest of it. The thing that struck me as a little strange about that is that you raised

out a valuation that exceeded the then current valuation of Hinge. You'd announced, I think, that you were doing about 200 million in revenue. They were doing over 300 million. I would assume your valuation, you know, if you'd gone public and there's no reason why you wouldn't go public would be would be, you know, lower than theirs just on the on the revenue basis, but you announced a higher valuation. Uh who knows what deal you and General Catalyst cut with each other about preference shares and payment back and

all that stuff. else goes on. But tell me, why did you want to uh why did you announce at such a high valuation? Are you not paying yourself into a corner when it comes down to actually going public and and uh putting the market? So, first there are no special terms. We have the same terms of previous rounds, right? Like terms, same vanilla terms. There are no funny liquidation preferences, none of that, right? No special guarantees like same terms we had in all of like we have the same terms since our series they never

changed right and so not also not in this round I think it's like and I'm not talking about any other company right because they are not in the room to defend themselves I'm just saying that like General Motors has a much larger revenue than Tesla and Tesla has a much bigger valuation okay right so again because each company is unique in in their own way, right? And so we um and that's how the reason why I started by again this there's this misconception about SW that we are an MSK company when

actually we started in msk uh but what we are doing is really reinventing with our AI care model how care delivery is done in every single vertical of care that that is important right um well the same way that Tesla started with the roadster which was a sports car and they are not a sports car company right and so very clear as to what kind of company they are, but that's a separate these days. Certainly, certainly. Hopefully, you're not thinking of buying a social media company just on the side,

but we'll talk about that. Um, but so this to say that um we we are comfortable and and by the way, we don't compare ourselves. We don't think our valuation is like white or not because some other company has some other valuation, right? Um this valuation puts us as the most valuable company in digital msk but I think that in itself is constraining our potential because we believe that we are beyond the the the msk field um on putting ourselves into a corner regarding going public. Look,

that's in 2021, we raised our round at $2 billion, right? And everyone thought by then it was very expensive, right? Um, last year we raised at $3 billion and everyone thought it was very expensive. And some folks still think that it's still very expensive now at $4 billion. Um, but I think it comes down to look, can we deliver in the future the growth that we've seen so far? And uh and that's the premise behind this round. Uh and and by the way, I'm not saying it's a given, right? Like

we will need to work hard to deliver on the on the on the expect expectations of growth. But that's that's the premise behind this valuation is that we will keep going very fast and we will be successful into other areas of care as we've been very successful within physical pain, women's physical health and etc. Right? So that's the premise, right? And so it's really about like in the future we will be more successful. Okay. So two two last questions. One is what's the what's your projection then?

I think you mentioned publicly 200 million revenue is the current run rate. I believe 240 240 sorry 240 is the current run rate and what's your projection for for next year with these other areas and do you have a forward prediction or not or have you made one? I don't think we can disclose those publicly but I can tell you that we expect to go at the same clip actually we expect to slightly accelerate those next year. Okay. So then let's talk about the second thing you've gone into a new area

uh mental health and you should say two two things. One is you have a device uh that's connected to the the the the solution. Um so tell me what that is and secondly that's an incredibly competitive area. there already sever if you look at the list of companies who raised money there are many many companies who raised hundreds of millions of dollars just in that area alone why do you think you have something different um and and sub you know and I understand the connection to stuff you've done already already in

pain but uh why do you think you have something different to offer there when you're you know moving to such a competitive area so tell me about the device and then tell me why you're in I will start well we are certainly different I think the question mark is if we are different and successful and that's yet to be seen, right? But we are certainly different. Um the reason why we have a device, so all of our solutions, by the way, they have the device with the sensors, they have the AI, and they have human clinician,

right? And if you look at physical pain, that's what happens. If you look at pelvic health, uh that's what happens. Every single solution uses these three layers of our model. And the reason why is because for the clinician and the AI to be able to act on your care, they need to be understand your context, right? They need to be able to observe you and the hardware piece allows you to observe as an example, right? I will give you two examples. uh there's a direct correlation uh on your mental health status on how

you are, how you feel with the fact that you've been spending all day in a dark room, right? So like several studies tell you that you need to go out, get some sun, get that beautiful bright light from the sun that will immediately improve your um your mental health status. Now the question mark is if you are not able to observe and sense for that, how do you know if that's happening? How do you know if the person is in the dark room or or they are in the outside? And so we look at mental

health and we look at all the biocsychological triggers that influence your mental health and we try to measure them as much as possible. Right? And so that's why our new device which is a wearable band um built by us has a UV uh sensor that measures uh if you are on the outside getting sunlight or not. That's one example, right? Another example is right now the current stat score of mental health is if you have an anxiety attack right you will be talking about that anxiety attack in one week in your

talk therapy session right right how awkward that is right and what we want to do is if you have an anxiety attack we immediately detect that and we proactively reach out to you with help on the moment and that's why I say that well we are certainly different from all the other solutions TVD going to be different and successful but I do believe that changing mental health care from that one appointment every week to a model where it's 247 proactive right and also reactive but proactive where you someone is taking care of your

mental health continuously because it's analy analyzing continuously uh how you feel I think it's it's crit ical to really solve the mental health crisis because one other problem with the current stat score is that you see the mental health costs increasing like that and the incidence and prevalence and mental health going like that which certainly doesn't make sense. If you have an effective solution and you increase the cost the investment within that solution you should expect mental

health incidents and prevalence to decrease. I'm not not sure that's works for the rest of healthcare, but maybe. No, I get it. What? Tell me what else is I'm being I'm being cynical, but uh tell tell me about So, tell me what else what else does the device measure? Measures you mentioned anxiety, sunlight, whatever. And of course, we will not disclose everything because we need to catch some trade secrets, right? But it measures so basically I'll tell you the reasoning behind the built the definition of

senses, right? We just look at the clinical literature and so all the things that you can do and to improve your mental health that is not talk therapy and pills right and then we then overlay with an analysis which is how many of those things can we measure through sensors right and that's how we define the set of sensors and then the program itself also has therapy what else what else is in the program yeah it also has thought therapy we have like doctors of psychology managing you where you can have thought therapy we

that layer but our belief is that it's not only that layer. Yeah, I get it. And the but do you have you have psychiatrists who can prescribe medication as well as we don't. So it's it's a non non that we believe we can address efficiently. So first we are not doing smi a severe mental health illness. We are not that's an area we are not touching because I think it's way too complex for us to try to act on that area. Um so any on the triage piece any detection of severe mental health

illness we refer to a specialist in that area right the big bulk of mental health problem which is low to mid depression and anxiety we believe strongly that should be addressed without uh pills. This being said we are not dogmatic about it. if someone really needs it for some reasons, we then refer to a specialist outside of our solution to then prescribe for that also because like it's about that thing about healthcare is not a one size fits all, right? And so we should not be prescriptive in terms of what we expect

to work on someone. Um and we that's why we refer people out of the out of our solution if needed. No, I agree. And I think there's a, you know, there's very good evidence that anti-depressants only work on about 30% of the people who use them and that we should be thinking about other other methods and this this sounds very innovative. So, uh, hope hopefully there's a place for it. All right. I know you have to run. Um, I want to say I've been talking to V Pento. He's the CEO of Sword Health. Um,

V, hopefully you'll come back and tell us about the new areas you're going to go into um, shortly. Thanks for coming on THCB and and thanks for thanks for answering those uh some of those tough questions. I'll get you on the rest of them later. That's but important. Thank you, Matthew. Okay, take care. Goodbye. Thank you.