Title: Warris Bokhari, CEO, Claimable
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Qq4mu7bQolM
Language: en
Duration: 01:16:04
Upload Date: June 26, 2026

Transcription:

[music]  Matthew Halt here with the Healthcare  Blog, another THCB spotlight and I'm  thrilled to be talking with Warris  Picari. Morris is the CEO of Claimable  and not so very long ago I had his uh  co-founder Alicia Graeme on a panel at  Vive um where she was faced up with at  least one senior executive with the big  health plan although the other one  didn't show up because apparently my  questions weren't going to be nice or  something like that.

So, so you'll uh  and if you've seen Wars around on  LinkedIn, you know that Claim Bull has  certain uh loud points of view, but uh  Wars, why don't we start with what Claim  does. We're going to do a little bit  about what you've been doing before that  and then uh we'll probably get the most  of this conversation is how do we fix  American healthcare because that's what  two British guys we both are.

I also should be discussing  I also much to the annoyance of Anthem's  PR person would like to talk about that  panel as well. I don't know if I don't  know if that's off limits, but uh  yeah, we're happy to talk about it. The  good news is it's [laughter]  remember what actually happened on it.  Um  Oh, I can.  And uh and I think the only person who's  ever found a recording of it was you and  you were probably, you know,  I I I was I think much to their dismay,  I was recording it.

Well, why don't we  start with as you suggested what  claimable uh is and does. So like the  broad problem is we've in this country  and you and I by the way are not from  here but we live here and I think that  makes the mad  actually I'm old so I've lived here more  than I lived in England and I've lived  my entire essentially my entire adult  life here five five six years when I was  depending on when you consider me to  have become an adult the same could be  said  that happened [laughter] yet with me but  so um I so the broad problem is that you  know every year in the US there are  about a billion denied claims across the  entire healthare system and that's like  when you think about you know Medicare  advantage when you think about  commercial which includes self-insured  and fully insured plans the ACA exchange  which you know we've been busy trying to  kill uh which is ill advised and you

know Medicare Medicaid etc. So like  across all of those plans, there's a  billion denials out of the 5 billion  claims filed every year. And really only  about 1 million appeals ever get filed.  Now when you think about how many humans  this affects, obviously there not a  billion humans in the United States. So  there are 300 million insured people.

If  you look at the latest data from the  Commonwealth Fund, it backs into like a  1 in5 denial rate, but that's as high as  one in three if you have a chronic  disease. So, you know, a third of  America, like the majority, well, quite  a lot of Americans have a chronic  disease and they're they're battling  denials.

50% of these denials are  medication denials. And if you think  about um there really being a few modes  of health care, there's um  you know kind of the stay well mode  which is manage chronic disease well and  then there's get care which is normally  when someone's acutely decompensated  needs to end up in a clinic or or an  emergency room.

we're biasing toward  people needing more expensive care  because we're restricting access to  things that keep them healthy and uh and  those are medications that keep chronic  diseases controlled. So, we built the  Turbo Tax of appeals basically for  medications. So far, it will be  expanding to include investigations like  MRIs and PET scans specifically for  oncology pretty soon.

Uh and you know,  we're going to keep moving down the  field. Um, and we beat around 80% of  denials. I mean, the exact number across  our entire platforms, closer to 74%. But  when you look in uh, biologics, which  are the expensive, you know, medications  which are often restricted, and I I know  that you're going to want to talk about  this, uh, the medications which are  often restricted, um, we're beating well  over 80% of of those cases.

Um and you know for we've there are a  number of ways that patients can use us.  First of all there's a direct to  consumer door which will never go away  and that's particularly because most  providers give up and don't appeal. Uh  and then there's also a door where we  work with manufacturers and we support  their patient assistance programs where  effectively we've transferred the  economic loss uh you know from the  insurer who should be who's getting the  premiums and should be paying for the  care to the patient who then has to seek  subsidy from farmer but effectively the

payer should be paying for it at least  80% of the time. Uh and you know and  then we're increasingly starting to work  with health systems. So those are the  ways in which we're those are the ways  in which we work today.  And then for the actual consumer  experience, I have a problem with this  and don't have anybody else to help me. I've seen you appealing for people on  LinkedIn on behalf of people and I know  Mark Cuban is very he sometimes. But  let's say it's all normal. I come to the

claimable website and what do I do?  Yeah. So there's there's a finite number  of things that we support today, right?  Just to be very very clear. We get  people who come to us um looking for all  sorts of things which we don't cover. Um  we cover a lot of therapeutics.  Sometimes I get like last week I had a  mom reach out whose kid has osteosoma  which is a terrible uh you know uh bone  cancer effectively and the insurers's  answer was hey amputate the leg versus  get surgery at lung ketering and that  was one which I did on the side. So like  we run a for-profit AI forward SAS  company effectively on one side and on  the other side I run a pretty much 24/7  advocacy business where I figure out how  to help as many people as I can in in  the background whilst we're we're  closing the gap and all the things we  can automate responsibly but like say  for example you're denied like a common  example would be zbound right like we  get a lot of patients who are denied

JLP1s  um you know they're extremely helpful  drugs uh you know they've now been  approved for more and more uh  indications like including MASH you know  which is the metabolic associated stato  hepatitis  which my dad died from uh and so like  the idea of it as a medication that  actually could have prevented you know  cerotic liver through that would have  been very useful say 10 years ago but  like here we are so that you know you  could appeal for that we take you  through a very simple Q&A of what you've  tried before uh and you know measures  lifestyle measures, etc. And then we'll  ask you questions about how your disease  affects you. Because Matt, the dirty  secret is is that insurers don't think  of you as a person. They think of you as  a membership card and a membership ID  number. And you know, you're really a  passive premium payer to them. But when  you have a problem, there's no way that  you can reach them. They they sure as  hell don't want you to appeal uh because

they never they never actually want to  know what it's like for a patient to  suffer from a disease. So we capture the  information about like for example um I  have severe rheumatoid arthritis. I used  to be the person who did the cooking for  my family on a Sunday and now I don't  see my family because my disease is  decompensated so much that I'm in so  much pain. I can't sleep.

I sleep  upright in a chair in my living room  every night etc etc right and so I you  know patients become progressively  socially isolated. And so we we narrate  that story in the patient's words back  to the insurer and then we combine it  with the clinical evidence like the  peer-reviewed studies um you know the  the clinical practice guidelines and  also cases where the insurer has been  beaten before to show them that like hey  your decision seem inconsistent with  these other decisions that have been  made for cases just like mine. Oh, and  by the way, here are all the laws that  mean that what you're doing to me is  probably illegal.  And uh I'm going to send this to the CEO  of the self-funded plan because they're  actually the fiduciary and they probably  have no idea what you're doing. Uh we're  going to send it to the Department of  Labor. We're going to send it to the  seauite of this plan to make it  extremely clear that this is a real  person with real needs.  So

they are coming on board. They're  getting uh some AI assistance. I mean I  let me ask the scalability question. How  how are they I know there are very few  appeals that very few denials that get  appealed. Um I don't know how many are  being appealed now and how many are you  responsible for? Are you a significant  part of the market now? Not yet number  [laughter] as you said the numbers  globally yeah appeals that get over  appeals sorry denials that get  overturned on appeal it's actually  pretty high  yeah does that so I don't know how good  80% is or 75% is compared to the average  I mean  the the average the average from the  Kaiser family foundation data is 44%. So  across all of Yeah. So we're  significantly we're significantly better  than that, right? Uh I think for  currently I assume are coming from  providers doing appeals or is it  uh if you look across the country  around 75% of appeals today come from

the provider. The issue is is and this  is the thing that people don't  understand is that the provider has  actually no statutory rights to appeal.  They actually borrow their rights from  from the patient. So if uh providers  have contractual rights with you know  United and whoever um the patient has  federally protected rights under Orisa  which was the 1974  law that was set up to make sure that  you know employers couldn't gamble away  pension funds and things but got  extended into health benefits right and  then Orisa was built on top of and this  is probably more Christensen area but  was built on top of for uh the  Affordable Care Act in 2010 which  basically stood on those provisions and  extended them to include  um you know consistent rights of  independent review which basically every  state other than Alabama follows. Uh and  I've got into significant arguments with  the state of Alabama over their lack of

compliance as you might imagine. Um and  and and so what we believe is that your  first appeal is your best appeal. So we  try and put as much forward in the  patient appeals as possible. And the  first journey, the first battle was like  convincing anyone that this problem  mattered. No one believed 3 years ago  when you know probably longer than that  now, but when I posited that this was a  problem, no one believed me at all.

And  it wasn't until after Brian Thompson  died that suddenly the Overton window  shifted. And initially it shifted in a  really unhealthy way, which was a kind  of morbid fascination about Luigi and  other things. And then it shifted into  like solutions and like I'm here for  that, right? Like which is like how do  we talk about patients really getting  getting their rights upheld? How do we  get them to get access to care and also  not become progressively disabled.

So  we've certainly had cases where we've  intervened but it's been too late. And  pretty much nothing is more painful to  like us as a as a team than uh you know  winning for a patient but it being a  completely perfect victory. The patient  dies comes to significant harm. It's  probably happened four or five times  this year.

Yeah. Um  so the majority of cases you mentioned  GOP ones but the majority of cases that  you're facing you're seeing how how much  of this is I the ones that have really  break how much of this is people either  they change health plan or that they get  changed their health plan gets changed  on them by their employer and a new one  has a PBM which doesn't cover the drug  that they spent years figuring out which  drug actually works for them or in some  cases the

PBM changes the formula on the  drug and a lot of this is not  necessarily massively expensive by  there's not the hundreds of thousand  dollar B biologics but some of them are  you know serious and obviously because  one drug can work for one patient  another drug may not work for that  patient that's that's that's a a big  issue and we know that the reasons why  the PDMs are changing different brands  for another and even changing different  generics for another but um give give me  a sense how much of what you're seeing  is that the other one that has raised a

lot of hackles recently on news is  obviously the nursing home uh sniff  denials rehab denials especially medical  advantage how how much of that are you  seeing do you do that give me a sense  about what's going on out there in the  wide world of denials and then which one  are you most mostly picking up a claim  yeah so pretty much all therapeutics I  have done rehab denials just FYI uh and  the provider it can be as much to blame  as uh the insurer in some in the cases  I've seen Um and some of that's about  DRG like disease related groups and not  wanting to split them. Uh in fact the  first case we appealed was a stroke  rehab patient come to think of it and it  was it was the provider was afraid to  appeal because they're worried about  retaliation from the insurer.  Uh and we got that one we we got that  one overturned and then you know there  have been other ones. So I think one of  one of my friends her dad became

quadroplegic after a fall and um I had  to intercede there because she's having  a lot of issues getting his rehab paid  for but it was actually the hospital it  was actually the hospital that didn't  that didn't want to fight and that  actually ended up getting escalated to  um Cathy Hokll as in governor in New  York to to uh tell off the hospital and  and that got overturned.

So those ones  aren't ones that that we see commonly  but I see them and we'll try and help  where I can. On the therapeutic side we  see a lot of formulary changes right so  we see a lot of you know um if not do  Pixin then uh swallow this pack of  steroids uh be you know good luck. We  see a lot of you know please don't take  um you know this biologic take this bio  similar  and the patient's been you know stable  on the bi on the branded biologic for 20  years and then it gets switched to a  bimilar and they start to decompensate  and you know they now need a way back  onto onto originator compound. Now in  England, the way that uh I was taught,  which was pretty much that we never we  never learned brand names in in medical  school, we were always taught the  systematic name. And you know, you you  you think about it as a drug, not a  brand. The the issue here is that not

all of the bioimilars are exactly the  same. um and patients may respond to  them quite differently and if they've  been stable. So like there was a UC  patient um who uh was switched and then  ended up like basically unable to eat,  got admitted to the emergency room,  ended up being admitted for feeding and  needed a way back.

There was another  patient who was a North Carolina patient  as I recall who was a rheatology patient  who got switched from an originator to a  uh biosim and develop rheumatoid lung  which is like a really serious you know  basically sign of like non of like not  having control. I got to caveat all of  this by saying that we see a selection  we see a biased selection of patients  who who have been denied and have  problems.

uh but it is a  to interrupt you see you are saying that  you know some generic the quote generic  bioimilar is not actually the similar  it's not that similar in some  yeah some patients right and that's the  way that  for for some patients there there's a  there's a really good argument for  saying that if you're starting someone  on a therapy you should start them on a

biosimilar because it's cheaper then the  question becomes cheaper for whom and um  and it becomes cheaper for the plan not  for the patient because they end up  routing the patient through either a  white bag, which is more expensive for  them because then it goes from a medical  benefit to a pharmacy benefit. They pay  more. It could be that their infusion  center won't accept it because the  infusion centers buying bills. Then they  lose continuity of care. Uh maybe a  hospital accepts it. Then it moves from  being a clinic visit to a hospital  visit. So it goes from a $50 co-ay to a  $2,000 hospital visit. The patient then  abandons care. So similar. So keeper for  whom, I think, is the first question. Um

but if if all things were equal and  there wasn't all of this chicainery,  yes, it would be much easier to have  patients on bio similars to begin with.  Yeah. And I think that that's one of the  um uh you know one one of the main ones  but there's also a lot you mentioned in  terms of changing PBMs and former Yeah.

I know for instance Jen Horaj savvy the  savvy patients and changing now it's  real patients now that it's  real patients. Yeah. She she's just gone  through this where you know they change  even though as well known a patient as  her right they changed the drug on her  they the formally changed the student  couldn't get in has to go through all  the the same denial process and can't  get access can't get hold of can't get  the access you know called by roboc  calls and that kind of stuff and and you  know you see way way too much of that  and there too much now now  couple of things uh one one is that a

lot of this is who is to blame for the  fact these things cost so damn much  money. [laughter]  So let's talk a bit about that  especially on the biologic side. There  have clearly been um a lot of biologics  invented which do great stuff and change  people lives and there's been a lot of  biologics invented especially in the  oncology space a lot of cancer drugs  invented that extend

life a little bit for a huge amount of  money.  Yeah. And then wrapped up in this is the  fact that somehow noises can sell uh a  Zeic for you know 80 bucks a month in  Denmark and seem to make a decent amount  of money on it and why does they have to  sell it for 1,200 or 800 or 700 or  whatever the number is you know or 500  number is here.

So how much of this is a  problem with with pricing of those  drugs? How much of this is a problem of  uh fight between the PVMs and the drug  companies over who gets what slice of  the margin for the drugs? And then I  guess the last question is how do we get  to your what's the overall cost to the  person who's paying in the end?  Yeah.

I mean there are way too many  middlemen. Like if if this business is  ultimately successful, there's no need  for us and that's the future that we're  actually quite happy with as a business.  It's like we if we can get to the  utopia, it's that the insurers realize  that they can't deny via AI uh because  it becomes so so ludicrously expensive  for them to have all of these appeals  reflected back at them.

Now, the reason  why they deny is because they're looking  for the more profitable route, which is  either they don't pay out or uh they  route it through their verticalized  infrastructure, which is, you know, they  own everything. So, they've tolerated  higher and higher prices. So, you know,  it's their own specialty pharmacy.

It's  their own PVM. It's their own retail  pharmacy. Like they literally own it all  and it's and then there's an insurance  company on the back of it that's you  know issuing the issuing the uh the  denial and and collecting the premiums.  So like there so the vertical  integration is like for sure a big part  of it and it's a big part of a waste and  inefficiency.

the the other issue is  that then um  you know for sure you've got issues with  how much the actual drug costs. Now, if  you look at the dynamic, and this is one  side, and I'm sure if you if you got,  you know, David Joiner to put his hand  on a Bible and the other hand in the  air, he might tell you like what's  really going on.

But, um,  I've had farmer manufacturers say to me  that they would charge 5x less for a  medication if the PBMs weren't rate  setting a rebate,  right? So, and that like whether that's  true or not, go on.  But but but like but whether that's true  or not, I couldn't tell you. But like  the rebate determines the market access  because it determines the formulary  position.

And if you're if you're  basically not on that list, your drug  doesn't exist because there is no other  way of accessing the market and in an  organized manner than uh through your  insurance mechanism today, right? like  um your argument is that it doesn't  really matter what the list price is. Um  there's going to be there has to be a

big chunk of re rebated back by the  manufacturer to the PBM or else they  won't get on the formula in which case  it's it's it's a mafia, right? Like  they're paying a vig to to the PBM to  like basically be considered, right? Uh  like nice drug nice drug you've got  there be a shame if something happened  to its formulary position or whatever.  But but ultimately like the price does  matter. Uh like of course it matters. So  and then then your question also went to  like marginal benefit. Um now in England  before we leave that I mean there's one  thing I'd drop in there which is that  there's been very I mean I I I kind of

joke about the biggest farmer innovation  these days is in the the legal  department. They try to figure out how  to extend patents.  Ohis  the patent went on way way longer than  it should have done because of all kinds  of games played with form formulation. I  mean like uh my inh I think my inhaler  which is a um  uh  it's uh symbolical it was sorry

I had to  think about it for a second [laughter]  you know that was coming off patent and  I think they did something and like  don't quote me on this but I think they  did something to keep it on patent by  changing the delivery mechanism. Yeah,  I'm not I can't remember what it was,  but I gave him like another number of  years of like that being, you know,  whatever. I mean, there are generics for  it to be honest, but like the um there  are also fairs reports with the FDA that  say that like brainer for example is  ineffective and that's Etna's drug of  choice for asthmetics like me and  they'll continually try to steer me to  it even though there are reports that

say it doesn't work, which is amazing.  So um so the the price the price  ultimately does matter and the market  you know the all of these companies are  ultimately answerable to their  shareholders and that's exactly what  they're solving for. So it's either for  it's either by volume of drug or unit  cost.

Now I think we can solve some of  the toxicity if we actually were to clip  the ability for these PBMs to earn  rebates. And they say there was a uh  debate that went uh pretty pretty viral  between um Mark Cuban and Patrick  Conway, our neighborhood friendly uh  pediatrician as he describes himself and  the the

also for those who don't know is I  believe he's he's head of optimal  together or is it optimal? Yeah, he's  he's he's I think he's chief medical  coster ahead of optimum and I've I've  had some like pleasant emails with him  where I've interceded for patients and  he's promised to look at things and  that's been actually better than most  like to to give credit where credit is  due. Like that is actually better than  most. Um, so I will I will say that like  he um that conversation you could see  that Mark was like visibly getting quite  frustrated with with the uh obfiscation  of the answer to the question which is  like what other charges are you not  telling us that that you're billing for  because there are a lot of bundled

charges and there's a lot of things that  employers are buying that they probably  don't need that but are hidden in hidden  buried in the costs. uh including like  you know payers are starting to charge  uh providers for challenging prior off  deducts. So you know and then that gets  passed on to the employer.

So there's a  lot of there's a lot of buried costs in  there. So like it is still  non-transparent and then there's gross  to net as well. So there is the idea of  like you know you know which price are  they really quoting back.  Yeah. No I think you know when you talk  about Jay Lyno who's these days was a  capital RX I think it's Judy is the name  name of his PDM.

He said to me at one  point there were he'd found 27 or 25  different ways of fees that were  attached by the PBM, you know, beyond  this. And I think if you get rid of the  relay, but you don't let the PBM  contract, and this is you mentioned  Christie and she has a lot of stuff to  say about contracts that don't allow you  to assess or audit the activity of the  plan.

And you know, if you go down that  path and you put these people in the  middle, they are going to figure out  ways to charge you. It's like, you know,  it's like buying a ticket to the World  Cup.  I I actually  then the water costs you $19 or  whatever, right? That this stuff  happens. And I I think that that it's  tough to  how you can allow this.

I mean, where  I'm going with this is I think the only  way you do this is what sort of  essentially what the Brits have done. So  you do some kind of nice thing and say,  uh, yes, this this is a this is a  clinically acceptable cost. this, you  know, this is not a clinically  acceptable cost. Um, and then you say,  we're going to do a price controls on  all the drugs.

I think if you did that  at some point, you would figure out you  do two things. One is you would get a  lot of unnecessary cost out of the  farmer business. There is they are still  spending more money on certainly if you  add on non R&D than on R&D. If you add  in obviously things like stock buybacks  and the vast amounts of money they pay  their executives and that kind of stuff.

Yes, it's a share shareholder business.  I understand it. But I mean it's still  it's still a very excessively lucrative  one. And they've done a lot of they  spent a lot of time in effort funding  people at TUS and elsewhere to persuade  people that drugs really do cost $3  billion to to get to the FDA. And I'm  not sure much of that is true.

Well, I mean  they they they have a lot of spare spare  stuff running that could come out of  them. So I say you can get prices down  that way without impacting R&D. And I  think we also need to figure out how to  make R&D better because we've been  spending more and more on R&D and  getting essentially less and less  valuable drugs out of it.

So  there there are there are a couple of  interesting things there there are a  couple of interesting things there. I  think it's easy to make a health  economic argument for an expensive drug  and the cost of all of the downstream  care is even more expensive. got to  think about that. We we came away  and and and that and that's and that's

like also the problem because then  you're everything's just really  inflated, right? So like I mean I used  to I was living in LA until quite  recently and you know um remember  getting to a punch up with Cedar Sinai  for my neighbor who had been built like  70,000. It was actually Arzana Cedars  something I don't even know but they  build her $70,000 as the total cost of  this appendecttomy in a young healthy  person uncomplicated basically  appendecttomy. Um, and the comparable  cost was $10,000. And so the question is  like, okay, so they're charging 7x and  then, you know, the percentage of that

is being passed on to the patient. Yeah.  That's that that starts adding up,  right? So then, you know, you start it's  basically like having a gas like one gas  station in a town and then the price of  gas is whatever they say it is. So you  have these like monopoly providers,  you've got monopoly insurers.

The prices  go up in step. So then yeah like your  health economic argument starts making  sense but the argument is still insane  and and then when you when you look at  what NICE does when they start looking  at like look does this drug truly extend  life? Is this drug truly different to  other things on market? Is is the  evidence is the study actually does a  study actually make sense in terms of  the end points? Is this a good study?  Those things have to matter and they  don't matter enough here.

Um we look at  that. So, if we're going to work with a  manufacturer, by the way, and we say no  to people a lot, um we actually look at  whether we actually look at the studies  and we look at whether whether they've  been rigorously conducted and whether  there's a basis for this uh this drug  being in market. Um we had um  we had a manufacturer  um with I can't even remember what how  much it was inflated, but it was absurd.

and we told them to pound sand. Um that  you know it was effectively  a marginal benefit over a traditional  steroid and uh only in like one  circumstance would it be considered  actually appropriate. And we're like  there's no way we're going to help you  ramp healthare cost on the basis of  this. Uh it's it's just too marginal.

And we see this we see this from time to  time and just say no not for us. But  where where you get to biologics where  you know for example um uh you take a  rheumatology patient right and I  remember when coentics was first coming  out um you know there was a patient in  Chicago who needed to be on it because  she tried and failed

everything else and  like just had incredibly poorly  controlled uh rheumatoid disease and for  that kind of patient like yeah it's  appropriate because they failed  everything else And you know that's not  where it is on the label. I mean it's  now earlier than that. But the point is  is that like yes an expensive therapy  could be justified if a patient's gone  through the requisite number of cheaper  drugs. The problem that we have saw this  this morning on a on a um newupixen  patient. We saw a patient I saw a  patient today who uh had failed a

medication previously had been stable on  a medication this medication for 7 years  was then directed by CVS to go try the  medication they failed again and you  know uh was you know was now on six  medications to control all of the side  effects of the medication that they had  now put this patient on.

And at what  point are we now doing more systematic  harm?  So there's there's a there's a really  big argument for this.  That's exactly the point where you've  done that. I mean there are two things  going on. One is the issue of which we  we we've talked about a couple times is  that you know how how much damage do you  cause by changing somebody's you know  life off that.

Not to mention the  bureaucratic fight that I've been back  and forth with CBS. You look at Jen  Horov and her attempt to get you know a  human being to call her. Um and then the  the issue is what's what's the cost  downstream. Now, as you raised, the  problem with the cost downstream is no  one knows what the hell the cost  downstream is because, you know, it it  varies so much and I've looked at my  bills and said, you know, if Blue  Shield's been the insurer, they've been  paying a huge amount more for some  providers than others.

We I can  the UCS some private guy when I've had  the same thing. And, you know, you  you've got a lot of of just not not  knowing. And I'm I'm at now I'm at the  point, you know, policy-wise, not  everyone's agreeing with me, that you  give a bunch of money to primary care  doctors told them to look after people  and that every gets a global budget and  gets told to figure it out or or fixed  price.

Look, I I I could I could give you  what the UK is. Matt, I can give you I  can give you a window into this, right?  Which is look, um, there's a guy in  Missouri, his name's Ed Stratton. Uh,  and he we we put his story on the front  page of the Wall Street Journal, which  I'm sure Anthem really loved, especially  as I used to be an executive there, but  oh well.

Um,  I'm not going to invite it back.  Probably not. I I actually had this like  I I would do this for shits and giggles  of just applying into like some really  lowlevel like role at Anthem and just  like just just doing it for for a laugh.  Like I wonder if I could get like hired  as like a call center like either a call  center worker or something else and just  like or or somewhere someone in med  policy who just approves everything that  would also be amazing. Um, no.

But  anyway, there's this patient called  called Edstrat and he had been denied a  liver transplant [snorts] and we talked  about this one quite a lot. Um, but what  was interesting is that we do have his  EOBS for all of the care that he was  getting whilst being denied his  transplant and it added up to hundreds  of thousands of dollars actually across  I think I think it was like 6 months uh  which his employer was paying for.

Now,  if you think about the transplant, the  transplant probably costs a million  dollars all in. Right? Now, if you were  to just say, you know, Ed, you can't  have a transplant. You're going to keep  being admitted in and out of hospital  for infections to your your necrotic  liver, and we're going to just, you  know, keep having to drain this using,  you know, CT guided CT guided drainage  and whatever, and he's just going to  continue to get worse.

The employer's on  the hook for all of that, basically. So  they're going to pay way more over the  odds than if he just had a transplant  which he's now had and to my knowledge  he's doing great. Um so  that to me is where it starts becoming a  false economy because in palative care  in America like dying in America is an  extremely expensive proposition that's  also not cheap.

So if you're going to  die slowly from cancer uh in America um  someone's picking up that tab and it's  either the family or the employer but  you're you know when you withhold  treatment that's the only path that you  you leave open.  Yeah. And and actually you go down that  path right we have a lot of my favorite  fact about American healthcare is that  you know the biggest palative care  hospice company is owned by the same  company that owns Roaruta.

[laughter]  Right. Right. Right. Right. and and and  you know you have a lot there's been a  lot of exposees and and details about  you know the hospice industry and you  know on and and poor care but also you  know very expensive care out of that.  Similar things are happening now in the  home care industry.

I mean, I've just  run into this lately where there's been  an expansion in what home care should be  paying for under Medicare, but in fact,  companies are not delivering that. That  there's everywhere you look, there is  some kind of whether it's for profit or  nonprofit, highly motivated uh highly  highly incented bad behavior.

And I I  think the only way we get rid of that is  to put a combination of patients and  physicians back in charge.  I would agree. I  I I don't think I mean, we've looked at  everything else. I don't think value  based care the way we do it works for  capital.  No, it's nonsense.  I think and and Jeff Goldmith who had on  the healthcare blog a lot has finally  you know he said that we we spent 40 50  years putting these controls in uh based  on the fact that we thought physicians  were cheating people.

And the way you do  the way you get rid of that is you get  rid of fee of service and pay physicians  a salary. You pay them a damn good  salary because they're very expensive  people who learned a lot and you by the  way don made them pay well 300 grand to  get through medical school and be  bankrupt during residency and all that  stuff.

But that that's where I think you  you fix it doesn't get over some of  these problems. What do you do about  very expensive people? So so let me  slightly shift the conversation. Right.  At some point we we mentioned palative  care we mentioned hospice. at some  point, right, you're you're a lot of  these the the argument about the denial  is that if you get over [clears throat]

the the the bit which is clearly we put  these other people on formulary, we sell  the drug on formulary and we make more  money if we ste it this way, which is  BS. But if you get over that and you get  over the fact the drug costs too much,  how often do you run into something  where it looks like somebody's trying  to, you know, do too much rather than  letting somebody  like a quattry prevention type  situation? I mean,  I'm trying to think about  Yeah. I mean, there's a lot of  historically there's a lot of uh care,  you know, ICU care and other of people  going to die anyway. And how much of  that sort of comes into the claims? They  our person is most of that just in

hospitals as a miracle.  I think most of it's in hospitals. I  rarely see it. So like on the  therapeutic side the patients who are  peeling in themselves they're really  hurting the I've seen a couple of cases  which have come to me like I'm very  available generally which is like you  know really to the detriment of my my  sleep hygiene.

But there there have been  a couple of cases where you know  families have reached out looking for  compassionate access to medications and  there has been no basis in science  for the use of that medication in the  use in in the mechanism the kind of  therapeutic mechanism that would be  understood for treating that cancer. And  so that's one where you have to kind of  draw the line and say like, well, I'm  not I'm not sure you actually have a  chance of getting this approved.

And  also like you should probably talk to  your physician because it sounds like it  sounds like it might be a  misunderstanding here and it would be  good for you to understand like what  your options might really be and whether  this is something you should be  pursuing. Uh, I've run into that maybe  twice.

And I've run into  cases where physicians are adapting to  step edits in maybe an overzealous way  and they're trying to figure out the,  you know, the easiest way to get  something approved is to use a vague  code, but [snorts] then the patient  doesn't fit the criteria of a vague code  and that creates a problem for us  because then we can't support it.

Vague code for the  like a vague like a vague code. So like  um we see this um that there's a  condition called pans pandas that we  support which is a rare disease and this  is a whole thing but like um the  treatment is IVIG. It's off label. or  the American Academy of Pediatrics don't  believe in it, but there's a lot of  politics in in how that clinical report  got written and so on and so forth,  which it it's by definition a shitow,  but in the interim like a lot of kids

are dying um because they become acutely  uh psychiatrically unwell and the  insurers use the AAP report which says  not a clinical guideline, not to  supersede individual clinical judgment,  yada yada yada, but the insurers use it  and they deny these patients  Uh where was I going with this? Um  providers every now and again we will  see providers who now put the patient in  as autoimmune and sephilitis. And the  problem with that is is that the patient

often hasn't had an EEG, often hasn't  had a um MRI, you know, a lumbar  puncture or all the other things that  would qualify them as actually truly  having autoimmune sephilitis. and then  and so then we we can't help them  because from from that perspective like  it's it's it's not a true appeal, right?  So we only want to be we only want to  support cases where the evidence is  really on the side of a patient.

So yeah. No, I it seems to me that that  what you're saying though is overall if  the if the if the the the doctor and the  patient have followed the right  protocol, most of the denials you're  seeing are not about kind of end of  life, the patient will die anyway. Most  of them are about change about ch you  know most of them are about should can  we pay once upfront for something which  will save money later which by the way  will save probably another insurance

company later or maybe another  yeah totally but there's no collective  action problem in this country so like  you know uh United are going to look 18  months in the future which is the  average time they'll have a patient and  that's how they set their actuarial  payback right so when when we're talking  about like are GLP1's worth it and David  Joiner is saying it's not that's based  on the price of a JLP1 and then probably  the downstream occurrence of like you  know avoided cardiovascular event which  probably wouldn't happen in 18 months  but it might happen in 5 years or 10

years depending on the average age of a  person taking it. So, so like you're  never going to see it. It's that we've  moved into a risk shifting, you know,  business and we can talk about  and we've been there a lot of that  and we've been there for a while and and  you know it it it could never  nothing makes any sense when you when  you have that level because people  change employers regularly and people  have changed plans regularly.

Absolutely. And  even now in Medicare, right? you go in  the medical something changed plans and  that so you know  and the  and you know the way I thought about  this and you know I did Eisman's podcast  in December and that I actually haven't  been back to rewatch that one because it  was  I I saw it the other day it was actually  pretty interesting.

What about you? This  is the Steve Eisman the guy who was  played by Steve Carl on the Big Short. I  can't remember.  Yeah, I was can't remember his big but  interesting  Mark Bal. I was super I was super I was  super bummed because I had an Anthem  patient who died a few days before a  transplant patient where they actually  reached out to like you know I think it  was like help out get claimable or  something like that and um it was the  daughter of a liver patient who reached  out and said like my mom needs help no  one will no she needs a transplant  whatever and so I called up this woman  was in was in an airport somewhere  flying back to see her mom in California  and no one would accept Anthem's  Medicare Advantage contract in in LA.  Uh, and this one was in or in in a  hospital in Orange County. And I managed  to get her accepted into  a  uh into a bed at UCSF, but by the time I

got her accepted, she died. And uh and  she had been languishing on that ward  for about 10 days. And days really  matter when you're that sick. So, um, so  I was really bummed, but so if you watch  it and I seem really depressed, that's  why, uh, because I was I was actually  really bothered and I hadn't slept in  about 3 days.

And a lot of that was also  just preparing to go up against Eisman  because he's so smart that you have to  like actually know your numbers. But I  had this kind of economic  show up on this podcast, I promise you.  [laughter]  Well, you prepped me to be fair, so like  that's helpful. But like, but Ste Steve  has the recursive why.

And you you kind  of have to like really have thought  about what what you're about to lay out  and and you know I put together like a  thesis of like where this goes which is  like look I think I think these insurers  are vulnerable uh and they're vulnerable  in their insurance business actually all  of the other stuff all of the you know  uh unregulated

revenue and that kind of  stuff is going to start looking really  attractive to split away from the  insurance business over a period of time  because if you look at the long history  of conglomerates it doesn't go well um  they will they will naturally want to  unlock more value for shareholders by  splitting them by breaking them up. And  so what we have to do like our incentive  is to is to drive that narrative for  activist investors to go into the  boardrooms at these companies and  actually break them apart. Uh and then  and then you've actually got a shot at  free market behavior if that's actually  the answer. Beyond that, what you need  is a risk transfer mechanism from  insurer to insurer, which solves this

18-month problem, which then allows  people to actually take the bet on  paying for more expensive care earlier.  So then it isn't futile. Um the other  thing I've seen as well, the other  mechanism I've seen uh is uh  manufacturer warranties for very  expensive medications as well which is  starting to become a thing where  manufacturers say look we'll warranty  some of the cost of this medication if  survival isn't you know XYZ months  minimum right um which is interesting  that that that's a very interesting idea  which  kind of goes against 200 years of drug  company history but  absolutely right? Because they're taking  bets on riskier disease. And so if you  start if you start going off those  narrower indications, then you have to  be able to underwrite your benefit. And  and I kind of like them having skin in  the game there as well. And then the  final thing is you just need a you need  an insurer of last resort, which is the  federal government who can take really a

longer horizon across everybody because  ultimately we pay for this anyway. Like  you stop working, guess who pays? The  taxpayer pays. I mean, so you've you've  got you're getting to where I've been  for a little while. I used to think, you  know, it's America. You could figure out  some kind of free market solution.

I sat  in front of Alan Hoben in the 90s and  the early 90s figuring out how do you  how could you create five competitive  Kaiser type organizations and then have  people buy into the more, you know, if  they wanted to buy the more expensive  plan, they had to pay with their own  cash and therefor you drove the market  down to a level and then everyone did a  sort of Kaiser type thing where they  figured out how how to figure out the  money internally.

I sort of privatized  British NHS.  Yeah.  And great. My problem is that when you  actually look at what happens in  healthcare in America, there's always  some open field where you can, you know,  was it last year it was wound care  supplements or where you can get away  with something for a while and then if  you try to fix an individual thing like  uh out of network surprise billings, now  there's these people who figured out how  to how to how to gain the arbitration  system and if you put in a massive fee,  you'll and you bribe the right  arbitrators.

Sorry.  you choose the right arbitrators or you  incent wait what would it  how I don't know how the the arbitrators  have fig out that that you know that  should be 1,400 bucks but we're going to  pay 28,000 or whatever and you know now  half the insurers are not paying up and  there's all kinds of general generalized  chaos um yeah somebody some complaining  that Blue Cross of Texas wasn't paying  their bills and I said well is blue  cross the only organization in Texas  that has to obey the law now I don't  didn't [laughter] understand any of them  I mean they they have the biggest uh  penetrance I believe in Texas

they're they're they're the largest  payer there and and they're right  anyway just just to finish my point  that that if you look at what h the big  players right  the pharma companies benefit from  unregulated pricing now there's attempt  to do negotiating with Medicare but it's  it's a long way and there's Medicaid and  there's VA but in general they can get  to charge what they like here and charge  way way more than they do abroad you can  argue they should be paying more in  Denmark and England but you know there's  why I argue monopoly profits  the hospitals have all consolidated and  they've all sitting

on massive uh  massive reserves and they're all  charging as much as they can and there  have been settlements that are paid $500  million to the state of California but  in general they can get away with  charging what they'd like and Dave Chase  will go on about this and Christie can  add infant items um and a big hospital  system somewhere between 65 and 80% of  its money comes from the from the  government anyway

sure from state and So there might as  well be a public utility. I don't know  why we're paying, you know, the top 200  people at UC UPMC 500,000 a year plus,  you know, 12 million to the CEO and 12  million to the former CEO who still was  getting paid even though he left three  years ago.

That kind of stuff is going  on at infil just doesn't make any sense  to me. And the last group are the  insurers, right? And yes, a lot of their  money comes a lot of their business  comes direct from commercial employers  who theoretically are employers who in  their commercial business who are  theorically out of the the the the the  tax base other than a the employers are  not paying tax on the benefits they're  giving their employees as a massive  subsidy from you un people who don't get  taxpayer  funded insurance to people who do.

uh  one and then uh number two is that their  profits in the recent years have all  come from either Medicare or Medicaid.  Some plans are entirely  Medicaid. Yeah,  that's the taxpayer as well. So I'm  going essentially this is all transfer  from  wealth transfer [laughter]  to  the healthare private companies. Yeah,  totally.

And  should be able to do something about it.  But we see this I mean we're seeing this  more and more, right? So, um I think run  the risk of doing that where we're  basically shifting the risk back to  individuals and saying like look  employer employers going to give you a  stipen go buy a plan but you probably  can't buy a plan that's worth a dam for  you know 500 for 500 bucks a month or  300 bucks a month or whatever they're  going to give you.

Um you know um the  the president has notioned that we  should get rid of the ACA and they're  doing a good job of defunding the ACA  effectively. Um and that is leading to  patients going bare. I've had two  patients in the last 2 weeks who've  reached out. One is in catastrophic  amount of medical debt uh because they  ended up going bar and then got very  sick.

Um and then the other one did a  health ministry and the health ministry  does not cover cancer uh within the  first year of you being in the plant.  and unfortunately this person got  cancer. And so you we're going to see a  lot more of this. And then the other the  other sort of wealth transfer is also  high deductible plans which also shifts  the risk onto onto the patient.

So  you're covered but not covered. Um and  then  I'll give you a example. So I'm about to  have my knee surgery as I think I  mentioned the other day and uh had I  stayed on the exchange plan and my wife  didn't actually go out and get a job  which has it own problems because she  went out and got a job was covered by  Sigma which is a uh  Oh yeah.

Sing sign  for I'm going to have it. So I had to  have the the the date moved up so I'm in  the coverage window which is nuts. But  there we go. But you know the out of  pocket max is going to be like four  grand as opposed to I think it was going  to be 14 or 12 on the exchange plan. And  you know how many Americans who by the  way are scraping together to get on the  exchange in the first place can afford  $14,000 additional out of pocket if they  have something bad going.

There's no  reason. So [snorts] we had this massive  underinsured class and the ACA was never  supposed to be like that. And don't  forget the ACA came from a huge amount  of stories exactly like the one he's  talking about. People who couldn't get  coverage, people who bought shoddy  insurance that went away. Um people, you  know, who who weren't allow couldn't get  insurance because they were denied  insurance by the plan because they were  had pre-existing conditions or had their  insurance had paid for their

insurance  had it taken away. All that going on in  California back in the in the zeros, you  know, it was there was this term called  recision where in fact blue she was one  of the worst where he's saying ah you  didn't check that box from the form and  in fact you did have this condition and  you know therefore the money or the  thing we so we're back then  I mean yeah I've seen a recision case in  the last year where the patient was  stuck with like a million dollars in in  retrospective claims. I mean look it  this system is a catastrophic mess. it  is not fit for purpose. The problem is  that everybody's pretty much on the take

and I think and I think you know as a  result there's like low incentive to fix  it. Um right now we're celebrating  deregulation  uh like it's staying out of business.  Like you see you know whoever you know  whichever uh wearable  um executive posing with RFK and you  know Marty McCary because they've  decided they're not going to you know  weigh in on algorithms.

But who bears  the cost for health systems do when  there's all of this utilization that's  like you know full of false positives.  It's not going to be Aura or you know  whoever else. Like I I find that to be  everybody's just in it for themselves  right now and nobody's really thinking  about the collective action problem that  we need to solve for to like make this  system more sane.

Um and and this is  going to have some very very negative  effects in in in the coming years. I'm  hoping that um I'm hoping for I'm hoping  for 2028 to restore some sanity. Uh but  who knows if that's possible. And I I  really hope whoever runs actually  understands that empowering,  [snorts] you know, Blue Cross, United,  Sigma to go solve a problem on their own  isn't is is not going to happen.

It's  not going to happen un unless there's  like real penalties that are enforced.  Uh they will never arrive at a solution  themselves. I very much doubt this  solution is political. I really feel  it's going to be economic before it's  ever political.  So say one more thing about what you  mean by that because I I I actually  I think I'm I think I'm about to  disagree with you, but I don't.

What do  you mean by economic?  Well, feel feel free, but like I you  know, in for the 2024 election, we  decided to make an explorer for open  secrets to like see who was actually  taking money from PPMs and it was  basically everyone. [snorts] And it was  really in local local races, right? And  this had been on the back of where I'd  like been in a punch up with Blue Cross  Blue Bold Alabama over covering this  woman's breast reconstruction, which  they have like a mandate to do on the  state.

this patient was uh on a reunion  plan and so we actually ended up paying  for it because we were just like you  know not going to let this woman suffer  before Christmas and we're feeling  feeling like we should. Um it's a long  story there, but [clears throat]  uh the the fact of the matter is  everyone's on the tech. And so when you  when you then look at like how long it's  going to take for us to get beyond  performative sessions in Congress where  we stand where we sit all of the  executives up uh

and make them answer  awkward questions followed by no change,  no enforcement, um you know, and uh no  bills passed, uh that's an extremely  long arc.  Well, I mean, yeah, I I'm with you  there. I I I don't know if there's an e  if there's an economic reform. I mean,  people have talked for years, my friend  Brian Clapper told me 25 years ago,  don't worry, employers are going to sort  this out. They won't put up with this  much longer.  No, that's not what I mean.  Okay.  That's actually not I I mean that we are

the economic reform. Um so I I think if  we can get enough patients to appeal, uh  we actually change the economics of  these insurers.  um uh you know particular like a lot. So  um if if we can if we can stimulate this  enough um it really impacts their bottom  line which actually impacts their top  line.

Uh the revenue replacement is a  real problem for them at that level.  Like I've seen you know you I I I'm  aware of what this looks like for them.  Let's put it that way. Um, and then more  patients get care and their model of  denying by a by AI effectively becomes  completely untenable because you start  having investors really paying attention  to the line item that's balaning.

So that happens and the insurance  companies get sort of sliced off by  outside activists, investors or hedge  funds or whatever.  Yeah.  Doesn't that mean essentially the  insurance, you know, what's left just  becomes more expensive, more people  become uninsured?  Not necessarily. I think I think what  you do is you actually break up the  verticalization.

So you allow more  company you actually allow more people  into the market and with with a genuine  value proposition, right? Like the the  the products are expensive because they  have no idea how to price anything  because there's no collective action  solution. Um but you allow for new  models to exist. And the other thing is  you remove their bargaining power of the  federal government to some extent  because they're far less powerful  would be where I would go.

They'd be  diminished. May maybe I mean I I I I I  have two I have I have so many things  I'm depressed about but one of them is I  met with Natalie Davis from USA of Care  you know which is kind of supposed to be  the moderate but sensible pressure group  that Andy Slavit set up some years ago  right  to her about you know well what what are  you pushing for in 2028 she said I don't  think we can get anything done by 2028  but in 2020 2032 we might be able to get  uh you know we're going to be launching  something which is going to be help  hoping for more transparency

in sort of  in in the system in general. I'm trying  to go 2032. That means I'll get passed  in 2033. It means I'll get uh something  will happen in 2034. I'll almost be dead  by the time [laughter]  I think problem. And the other the other  thing I see is that I don't know how  people are pretty mad and I don't know  how mad they are that we can have  something that's sort of I think we need  a total re I think if you if you do  something that's not a total revolution

you end up with somebody figuring out a  way to do every just to make money out  of every little piece and the only way  you can do it is is to have essentially  the abolition of the insurance function.  Hey man, I'm there for it. I'm I'm I'm  I'm there for it. like revolution or  else we're going to keep the  Well, but the point but the point is is  that this the second you make the second  you make these guys vulnerable I think  new solutions start presenting  themselves and some of it might be that  it's just cheaper to actually have the  federal government pay for it right like

you actually you actually shift the  Overton window in in that direction  because I mean it's kind of what they're  doing in England right like I don't know  if there's a really great book by uh  Walt Bogdanic called when Mackenzie  comes to town and it is completely  completely horrifying. Uh, and it  explains a lot of the crap I lived  through when I was actually in the NHS  that McKenzie were around like, you  know, kind of with the dials as  to like how the NHS was running and  you're like, "Oh, this is why it was all

getting worse."  Um and  uh they're in they the idea has been to  intentionally break the NHS and make it  so um uh unpalatable that people say  well we would accept anything other than  this model. Little do they know that a  model that we have is is um  unbearably worse [laughter] that uh like  I I think people in England think it's  bad there, but until they've come here  and had the pleasure for paying for  private insurance that that then uh you  know really denigrates you through  denials um that they haven't lived that  you're right. You're right. And by the  way, that is an argument that gets used  here all the time. How terrible is in  the NHS? I mean all that. Whereas if you  actually go to Japan, Germany, Poland,  Spain, France, there are a bunch of  perfectly acceptable health care systems  out there which don't tend to involve  massive delays, you know, to to get care

or massive delays to to to massive  prices. I mean, I was talking to a  shoulder surgeon in Japan the other day  and said, you know, if I hurt my  shoulder, how long would it be before I  got on your table? And he said, you  know, four to six weeks, not not so bad.  And it would cost me essentially  nothing, right? Um and and I you know  there are clearly American specific  issues the level of violence the level  of addiction  medal of mental health that's there's a  bunch of

stuff going going on here  that's different to to other countries  but I think we could get to somewhere to  my mind that's rational and American but  it require it would require a kind of  SDR level New Deal hit. So I I think  unless you got to, you know, a I don't  know an AOC or a what's the guy from  Maine now called? Platinum. Whoever the  you need a president who's got the  Donald Trump level of I don't give a   but actually wants to enforce  something good.  I know one guy but he says he's not  running. Um so I mean so

who's the guy that's not running?  Mark said he's not running. So but he  Yeah, he would be great.  Still, scratch him hard believes in the  free market. He he thinks what we  should, you know, if we got rid of all  these conglomerates and got to real  pricing and transparency, we would fix  it. I I think it need  it would certainly be I mean it would  certainly be more functional.

But the qu the question that my my point  is that there are so many places that  you can't see where something will pop  up and someone will start tracking and  they'll they'll make a fortune in two  years and be gone.  But this stuff gets attacked.  But the NHS I mean so when I was in the  NHS like I remember um blood services  being privatized so that was spun out.

Hospitals used to like manage their own  transfusion services that got spun out.  Testing, diagnostic testing used to be  done in house. That got subcontracted to  Quest as I remember when I was there. Um  ambulance transfers though that was  normal. MRIs were run by private  companies and then leased then were  leased back to the hospital which is why  the hospitals were in such a dire  financial mess.

Uh so you couldn't get  an MRI. um in daytime hours you might  have to transfer your patient across  across town. So there were a lot of  there were a lot of things there was a  lot of dreams of free market within  within you know the socialized model  which actually broke the efficiency of  the socialized model entirely  and uh and then the the constant  pressure for ward closures as well which  endangered patients and I would see that  all the time.

I was there during  Cameron. I think Cameron was uh Cameron  was in office but before that it was  Gordon Brown and it was the same it was  the same from you know prime  minister to prime minister. Um so like  the idea made sense where it is today I  don't think necessarily makes sense but  that's because they're trying to  intentionally break it.

Uh, and you've  you've got, you know, you've got people  waiting in the wings like Optum and  Sigma who are in the in the UK probably  looking to pick up some type of contract  somewhere. No doubt. But read the book.  It is interesting. I would be remiss if  we didn't briefly touch on the panel.  All right.

I've forgotten about the  panel. I forgot about it three months  ago. I've forgotten about it from the  start of this hour.  Well, yeah. Okay. So, and so anyone who  your your complaint about I thought Al  Alicia did a great job.  Sure.  Bunch of different uh issues and to be  fair did not get a lot of reply back. 

No, she was basically like dealing with  a mannequin, right? like who was  preloaded with three statements that had  been PR approved in you know Anthem's um  chief digital officer uh who was like no  matter what the question he had to say  like one of three PR approved talking  points and um uh you know that that was  quite awkward and then the CVS person  didn't show up because um I I guess they  were worried that anything they said  could be used as evidence against them  in a court of law maybe not sure but um  that was not the excuse gave me the  excuse they gave me was I I'm happy to  show you the correspondence. I may never  be invited back to Hell45 ever again,

but basically [laughter] I had a I had a  pre-hat with everyone PR agencies and I  and they said to me, could you write up  some questions? So I banged out a bunch  of normally I qu You should  you know we didn't write out questions  in our for this chat. Um, normally if  you write out questions, either you  don't use them or you use them realize  they were the stupid questions, but I  banged out some questions and the CBS PR  people, it wasn't even

CBS, it was their  PR separate PR agency,  of course. Um, and I forget who it was  the chief officer of CM  Michelle. It was Michelle Gordine.  Thank you. Michelle Gordine, you know  her. I I don't know her. So, uh,  I don't know her at all. I just have a  good memory.  She uh I I don't know if she ever saw  this. I don't think it got as far as  her. That's the who knows how it works  in these things.  Oh, I tag I tagged her into my post  review of her non-performance.  Well, I mean the the reason what  happened was that uh I wrote these  questions which I thought were sensible  real questions. I also said by the way I

got my lick in that I got to you which  is you know but we c we've had a fever  service system forever in America and we  can't just do everything because we know  what that that happens to medical  inflation. we know it's not  absolutely  um so I said we'll start there and  there'll be a bunch of other questions  and they came back to her and I said if  she doesn't like that question tell me I  won't ask her that question and they  they wrote to hell for me and said no we  don't accept this we're working out  which  it's too risky

going on to me but who knows  no it's because they can't say anything  real right like they they the point the  point is is they can't they can't offer  a real opinion if you if you're in um  you know a large company like it's it's  actually quite hard to say anything it  deviates from the company line uh and  kind of speak extemporaneously. They  they really don't like you doing that.  Uh which is why I was probably not  allowed to speak on behalf of large  companies um for that reason. But um it  was it's interesting. Uh I I would I  would welcome a debate with them because

I I think there's a really good argument  for for example like I spoke to I spoke  to one of the insurance exacts  afterwards and uh I won't identify them  or the insurer but I said to them like  please stop denying cancer and  transplant and you guys will be heroes  like just remove prior or in in oncology  and in transplant like things where  patients really could come to harm and  or die.

Um, and that would be a great  story. You you'll have far fewer angry  patients and I guarantee you you'll save  money. You'll save money on the admin  side and I think over time you'll save  money on the cost of care side. And the  answer I got back was, who would pay for  all of the additional care?  And  I'm like, well, okay, so there's a  there's an inbuilt presumption there  that the care is medically unnecessary,  right? But if you think about what it

takes to get approved for a transplant,  these patients have been seen by a  transplant ethics board. They have to  have been rigorously assessed, etc.  There's like a ton of imaging, etc. that  goes into like making sure that they're  even candidates. On the oncology side,  um these patients are often, you know,  they often are desperate and  increasingly they're curable disease if  you get them early enough. So the  question is what care do you want to pay  for and versus like are you going to pay  for it? Because you are going to pay for  it. It's just what are you gonna pay  for? Do you want to pay for something  curative or do you want to pay for

something paliative? And I would love to  have that debate with them. Like  genuinely in good faith, I would have  that debate with them all day. And we we  may not agree, but I think it's really  important to have it. And I think I  would encourage them to like honestly  like ask for Wizard of Oz for some  courage.

Um,  but they can't they can't do it because  it's far too easy to say by the time it  gets to the court of the public opinion  via the Luigi, you know, whatever the  the things are happening. The  answer is you're cutting off somebody,  you're going to kill them. We have this  with death panels back when the ACA  debate was happening.

I think you were  just in the states at that point and you  know Sarah Pedal talk about death panels  and the US which the the US uh U US  primary what's it usto the US primary  care  USPSTF. Yeah. Thank you.  Yeah.  Task force um you know was putting  together at the time some completely you  know apolitical thing about mamograms  and got completely railroaded and this  is the death panels we're going to have  and they're now being shut down by the  rep.

Didn't I think Kennedy f I think  RFJK RFK Jr. filed everybody on on on  the panel and and closed it down when  it's trying to be a a political  scientific body doing you know talking  about the right ways to to do guideline  treatments and it seems to me that as  soon as you put the the forurers in that  bucket they are they cannot win in the  court of public opinion  well they they've become the death  panels  well they they they've become the death  panels and people are now noticing and I  re the reason

I think there might be a  big political shift in 28 and I put is  that  I think it could happen on either side  actually but I put this at you know two  to 3% probably that that somebody could  come along and say I have a better way  of doing this in healthcare ra I mean 28  is going to be so hard because to me all  the recovery from all the crap that  Trump's pulled so whoever the candidate  on the left  talk about they're not even going to get  to healthare but at some point we're  gonna have to get to healthcare and say

this is this amazing show that we have  to fix and I think it has to be a  radical fix I don't I  The ACA, don't forget, was massively  fought over. It was a complete war about  extending insurance to not very many  people. Really got us from like, you  know, whatever it was, sort of 8% people  with insurance to like 93, you know, it  was for 10% of the country.

10% of the population. Yeah.  And you and you're going and we went to  like death wars about that forever. And  if you're going to do something, you  might as well do something big. and you  might as well say, "I'm going to I'm  here to take you out and I will deal  with the big forward insurers. I'll deal  and reconstitute how how the big health  systems behave and I'll price control  the  and I'd love to pour energy into helping  whoever um come up with that plan.

Right? Like because  I came up with this plan. I wrote it up.  I'm very happy for AOC,  right? I will plagiarize yours and then  put my name on it. give everyone  fantastic primary care fantastic and you  give the primary care doctors a lot of  money and you figure out a way to take  out everybody else and we're already  spending 18% of GDP which is 6% more  than the Germans the Japanese need  yeah I mean England England in England

we had quality outcome frameworks qua  points you might remember this or maybe  not but like you know docs were paid for  asking about smoking sensation blood  pressure etc  they actually improved outcomes  the problem was that they made primary  care relatively so well paid that people  went into it for the wrong reasons.  So they they  like they weren't necessarily they  weren't necessar Oh, I I know for a fact  that like my in my cohort the people who  went into it really didn't go into it  for the love of patience. They went into

it because they didn't want to be in a  hospital doing on calls, you know, for  72 hours across the weekend. what what  would have been and maybe it's hit a  better balance now but like you have to  find a way of finding people who  genuinely love working with patients and  and like you know have a genuine sense  of empathy and I don't know how you  select for that but that's really what  you need in in in that in that area when  when you know 20 years ago when I was  you know I guess practicing or whatever  um I was an ICU doctor I was very  attracted to the fast-paced part of  medicine

and Now I spend all my time  talking to patients. It's it's basically  like being in primary care. And I I  often do the thought experiment of if I  was to go back, would I go back to ICU?  And I think the answer is I' I'd be a  primary care doc actually because I I  care very much about that. But I I don't  think you have to. I mean, you have to  do some measurement, but I don't think  you have to do the pay performance  measurement that that the Brits  introduced or the people try to do here.  I think you have to trust the doctors

more. And I think you have to in this  country, you know, I know it changed  slightly in the UK, but in this country,  you you you know, you still have the  pediatricians and the primary care  foundation, they make they make a  pendance compared to the the surgeons  and the radiologists and it, you know,  that's why you don't have enough people  going into those residency programs.

That's all also why all the prestige all  the money goes the other way  and they all leave today.  You could you could fix that. You could  fix that with money and you could just  pay the primary care doctors more. You'd  have to pay the other people less.  That's not a big drain on the system.  Where you're going to save the money is  on hospitals that are now incented to  have primary care doctors referring  people in for stuff that may be of  marginal value.

One medical  it's usually orthopedic surgery. speak  [laughter] if they die with me replaced  which is which is which is very bad you  know  well it runs it runs antithetical to  like keeping care in a community right  if if they have an incentive to like  fill hospital beds and  and that's why hospital systems across  America have bought so many primary care  docks and you'll see now and again these  big fights with the primary care group  that got bought by hospital trying to  get itself out of it or they were doing  a great job and they  because too much  We just moved to Miami and I will tell  you that like two of our friends primary  care docs quit independent like they  they quit taking insurance and now they  are uh either concage or DPC and  I'm fine with the people going concier  and DBT. I think the government should  pay for it. I think it will save I'm  back I'm kind of further downstream from  where you are. I think if you manage  everyone if you if you paid  I agree

let people be concage docs they will  give them 600 patients  man manage their chronic ill patients I  think I think you could pay the  concierge docs very well they do very  I'd force everyone to go into it I  wouldn't let people not have a primary  care doc  I would agree with that too  and then [snorts] and then I I think it  would save so much money on the back end  compared I think if you would I think if  you have a competent I think if you have  a competent incentivized primary care  after it goes a long way. Uh DPC can  really work.

The um concage I have mixed  opinions on uh for reasons. There's  there's some quackery that's stuck into  high price concage which like  it doesn't have to be 20,000 or 50,000  or whatever you know private medical  insurance are charging. It doesn't have  to be that right but you could you could  do it  because no one can afford because no one  can afford that. But you could have a  government paid voucher which would be  pretty  decent  which would work across and which would  not be that much. We're spending about 7

to 10% of the healthare the 15 grand per  person  where I would have  spend 20%. It would be fine.  Where I would have gone with that um I  actually thought about this prior to  starting this company was like to take  like a DPC chassis and power it with  claims data. So then you knew which  services to put into DPC.

So then you  could pull kind of clinic based  specialties that otherwise live in  hospitals and kind of have like a multic  clinic effectively but it's it's really  per capita based on where you live. So  uh and then you would effectively have  far less care going to hospitals because  all of those specialties could manage  kind of primary care.

I mean there are bits I hadn't fig I  don't quite know how you get medical. I  don't know what you about dental which  seem which is a weird thing that's you  know excluded in most countries for for  no good reason. Apparently your teeth  are not part of your body.  Part of your body. No,  your your brain and your teeth have  nothing to do with your body, which is  but but you know you you can argue about  that,

but in the end you got to say is  how do I reliably manage the chronic  disease of the massive population?  And then that's half it. The other half  is what do I do with very expensive  people which is what we've been  discussing the whole time. You know  that's what you where your business is.  And both of them were doing terribly. So  I don't I don't see any reason.  God awful revolution. Anyway, god awful.  Yeah, I mean absolutely. I mean I I I'm  I'm here for it. I want to see it  happen. Uh I want to have enough data on  the bad behavior that that you know we  can drive that change. Um you know maybe  start working with some analysts to  actually help them change their ratings  on various insurers. I would I would

love to be able to do that.  Well that maybe that maybe works through  enough. All right. So uh we've had a  great chat. I've been talking with  [laughter] Warren Buri. He is the CEO of  Claimable. Somewhere if you go back to  the start of this conversation, we're  discussing what Claimable actually did  in terms of helping [laughter]  be denied by uh by [snorts] and and you  can go to claimable.

com, I assume, on  the internet.  Get claimable.com.  On the internet if you have any issues  with claims denials and there is a  policy where you can pay. Is there a is  there a consumer fee? There is, right?  No, it's $50. It's getclaimable.com.  Uh, and it's $50 whether you win or  lose. The idea was to charge a low flat  fee and we don't we're not in we're not  incentivized by like what the care  costs.

It's it's purely  um if it's purely just to allow anybody  who has a denial the ability to appeal  to be able to come and then you're  making it up hopefully a few investors  who I know include Mark Cubans others  you'll make it up on the back end in in  work you're doing with the uh the  patient access programs and others with  the pharma companies.

Yeah. Uh so yeah the check it out if you  have any issues and otherwise if it's  something urgent reach out to me and  turns out I'm very contactable  and you will find war on LinkedIn almost  all almost everywhere all the time  all the time. Yeah.  Some innocent uh poor  innocent in innocent insurance  executives  who's giving their opinion about  oncology in a bit.

[laughter]  Oh I was lighting I was lighting into  the SpaceX IPO yesterday so I'll I'll  I'll leave it there but  I I'm looking forward to almost all of  my [laughter] all of my index fund being  put in there. And  zero, but  speaking of wealth transfer,  Elon Musk and get a bit richer off off  all our backs. I'm much happier.  It's great. It's good to see you, man.

All right. Thank you, Worris. Great  great to catch up with you. Great great  discussion. I look forward to doing this  again. And we will figure out how the  two Brits are going to fix American  healthcare eventually.  I love it. I love it. Take care. Why  not?